We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 3-Elixir Cards, Heroes with 2-Elixir Abilities, Rare Cards, and 3 more
English
Mega Minion/Hero
< Mega Minion
1
SAVE
EDIT
“In the Arena full of uncertainty, Hero Mega Minion wants to make sure he can get to the right place in just the nick of time. Learning to shift through the shadows doesn't happen overnight!”
Hero Mega Minion
Elixir Cost
3 
Ability Cost
2 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Troop
Arena
Barbarian Bowl
Release Date
February 2, 2026


The Heroic Mega Minion is a Rare card that is unlocked with 200 . It appears as an enlarged Minion wearing a set of armor with a mask, chainmail, and a team-colored belt. A Heroic Mega Minion card costs 3  to deploy.

Contents
1	Ability: Wounding Warp
2	Strategy
3	Statistics
3.1	Hero Mega Minion Attributes
3.2	Wounding Warp Attributes
4	History
5	Gallery
6	Trivia
Ability: Wounding Warp
“Warps to the lowest-Hitpoint enemy, dealing damage on arrival.”
File:Ability-Mega Minion/Hero.png

The Hero Mega Minion has a special ability accessible from whatever side of the screen was put in, just above the player's card slots in battle. When deployed, a marker will be deployed to the lowest hitpoint target. When that unit dies, the mark will move to the next unit. When the ability is preased, Mega Minion will teleport to that tile, dealing damage. Afterwards the Mega Minion will behave normally, but with -75% on the tower. The Wounding Warp ability costs 2 Elixir to activate.

Strategy
Use the ability to snipe ranged units far away, like Wizard and Musketeer to teleport and kill them.
When defending, you can use swarms like Skeletons to take the agro of the aim. Making it so he cant target the unit he wants.
Be carefull when you use the ability, as it can be a 2 elixir waist. It could also lead to less crown tower damage overall.
Statistics
Hero Mega Minion Attributes
Cost

	Hit Speed

	First Hit Speed

	Speed

	Deploy Time

	Range

	Projectile Speed

	Target

	Count

	Transport

	Type

	Rarity


3	1.5 sec	0.4 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	Melee: Long (1.6)	1000	Air & Ground	x1	Air	Troop	Rare
Wounding Warp Attributes
Cost

	Crown Tower Damage

	Teleport Range


2	25%	Infinite
Level

	Hitpoints

	Damage

	Damage Per Second

	Warp Damage


3	390	146	97	186
4	430	160	106	205
5	472	176	117	225
6	520	194	129	248
7	572	213	142	273
8	629	234	156	300
9	692	258	172	330
10	761	284	189	363
11	837	312	208	399
12	921	343	228	439
13	1013	378	252	483
14	1114	415	276	531
15	1225	457	304	584
16	1348	502	334	643

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2026

Hero Mega Minion was released on 2/2/2026 with the Febuary 2026 Update, alongside Hero Goblins.
On 2/3/2026, the March 2026 Update decreased the Wounding Warp's damage by 12%.
On 7/4/2026, a Balance Update, a first target delay of 1.5s was implemented on the Hero Mega Minion, to where it could no longer instantly spawn to targeted troop when ability is activated.
On 4/5/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Hero Mega Minion's warp damage by 9%.
On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Hero Mega Minion's tower multiplier to x0.25 (from x0.5), it's crown tower damage reduction is now permanent, and its warp damage has been increased by 7%.
Gallery
Heroic Mega Minion Card Render.png
Current card render.
Heroic Mega Minion Shard.
Ability Icon
Trivia
The design of the Mega Minion resembles gargoyles. The gargoyle is a fantasy and horror monster inspired by the gargoyle architectural element. While they were believed in mythology to frighten away evil spirits, the idea of such statues physically coming to life is a more recent notion. They are usually made of magically animated or transformed stone, but have animal or chimera traits and are often guardians of a place such as a cathedral or castle. They can also be depicted as vessels for demonic possession or as a living species resembling statues.
In the French and Japanese language settings of the game, the Mega Minion's name translates to "Mega Gargoyle". In the Arabic, Chinese, Malaysian, Thai, and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Mega Minion's name translates to "Giant Minion", "Armored Undead", "Big Minion", "Armored Drone", and "Super Minion" respectively.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

1 Comment

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis