We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 5-Elixir Cards, Heroes with 2-Elixir Abilities, Rare Cards, and 3 more
English
Wizard/Hero
< Wizard
3
SAVE
EDIT
Hero Wizard
Elixir Cost
5 
Ability Cost
2 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Troop
Arena
Spell Valley
Release Date
5 January 2026
“After a decade of demolishing King Towers, Hero Wizard has learned to wield fire for flight! His wings were forged in flame and fortune, but they’re mysteriously cool to the touch.”

The Hero Wizard is a Rare card that is unlocked by spending 200 hero coins at once. The Hero Wizard takes the appearance of a man who has blonde eyebrows, mustache and goatee, and wears a beige cloak, a team-colored shirt, loincloth and pants, with all of them having a gold outline, a belt with a Hero Shard in the middle, two gold bracelets on his arms, and a pair of brown boots, while donning a pair of fiery golden wings. This card costs 5 to put on the arena and an additional 2  to activate his ability.

Ability: Fiery Flight
“Launches into the air and throws fearsome fire tornadoes.”
File:Ability-Wizard-Heroic.png

The Hero Wizard has a special ability accessible from whatever side of the screen was put in, just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1-second delay, the Hero Wizard activates his fiery flight, which makes him take flight for 5 seconds. While he is flying, not only he will get a 50% movement speed increase (now classified as fast), his fireballs also create 3 tile radius tornadoes, which does its own damage (reduced against crown towers), similar to the Evolved Valkyrie. The ability costs 2  to activate.

Strategy
Use your Hero Wizard's ability to pull back win conditions such as Golem, Giant, and Elixir Golem while also cripple/take out supporting units around these cards, such as Night Witch, Lumberjack, Witch, and Musketeer.
To make the most out of his ability, activate it when he is already attacking enemy troops, so that he does not waste any of his precious ability time moving.
Hero Wizard’s ability can be used to evade an opposing ground-targeting unit sent to take him out, most commonly Mini P.E.K.K.A. However, it’s recommended to distract that enemy unit (especially if it has a good amount of health left, or if it is a Hero Mini P.E.K.K.A.) to make your Hero Wizard and Crown Tower safe from potential damage.
The Hero Wizard's ability can be used to dodge the attacks of troops that cannot attack air troops, such as Mini P.E.K.K.A.
Cards that decrease attack speed or cause immobilization are good for negating the value Hero Wizard may offer for your opponent, such as Ice Wizard or Vines, not to mention that Vines can also drag the Hero Wizard to the ground, negating the flying ability.
Statistics
Hero Wizard Attributes
Cost

	Hit Speed

	First Hit Speed

	Speed

	Deploy Time

	Range

	Splash Radius

	Projectile Speed

	Target

	Count

	Transport

	Type

	Rarity


5	1.4 sec	0.4 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	5.5	1.5	600	Air & Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Rare
Tornado Ability Attributes
Cost

	Radius

	Flight Speed Increase

	Tornado Duration

	Target

	Transport


1	4	+50%	2 seconds	Air & Ground	Air
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage Per Second
	Tornado Damage

3	388	131	93	20
4	427	144	102	22
5	470	159	113	24
6	517	174	124	27
7	568	192	137	29
8	625	211	150	32
9	688	232	165	36
10	756	255	182	39
11	832	281	200	43
12	915	309	220	47
13	1007	340	242	52
14	1107	374	267	57
15	1218	411	293	63
16	1340	453	323	69

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2026

Hero Wizard was added to the game on 5/1/2026 with the January 2026 Update, along with Hero Ice Golem.
On 2/2/2026, a Balance Update, increased tornado pull to 250 (from 200).
On 23/2/2026, the 2026 Quarter 1 Update, decreased the hero wizards crown tower damage by 64%.
On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, made the ability single use (from 20sec cooldown).
Gallery
Heroic Wizard Card Render.png
Current card render.
Heroic Wizard Shard.
Trivia
The word "Wizard" comes from the Middle English "wys", meaning wise.
In the German, Persian, and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Wizard's name translates to "Magician". In the Chinese language settings of the game, the Wizard's name translates to "Mage".

The Wizard is 1 of 19 troops which first existed in Clash of Clans, the others being Minions, Archers, Goblins, Skeletons, Barbarians, Giant, Valkyrie, Hog Rider, Witch, P.E.K.K.A, Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Cannon Cart, Phoenix, Lava Hound, and the Archer Queen.

Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

3 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis