We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 5-Elixir Cards, Heroes with 2-Elixir Abilities, Rare Cards, and 2 more
English
Giant/Hero
< Giant
1
SAVE
EDIT
Hero Giant
Elixir Cost
5 
Ability Cost
2 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Troop
Arena
Training Camp
Release Date
December 1 2025
“A titan amidst Goblins...a Hero among men. Hero Giant wastes no time showing his enemies who’s boss and who’s lost on their journey to the King Tower.”

The Hero Giant is a Rare card that is unlocked with 200 hero fragments. It spawns one single-target, ground-targeting, melee, and ground troop with high hitpoints and moderate damage. The Heroic Giant takes the appearance of a colossal humanoid creature with glowing yellow eyes, blonde mutton chops, hair and eyebrows, wearing darker brown pants, a golden headband, and a team-colored belt with a golden base and details along with the Hero Shard in the center, while being bare-chested and wielding a pair of brass knuckles as his weapon with pearl and gold armbands. A Heroic Giant card costs 5  to deploy, and his ability costs an additional 2 to activate.

Ability: Heroic Hurl
“Throws the highest-hitpoint enemy troop in reach across the Arena”

The Hero Giant has a special ability accessible from whatever side of the screen was put in, just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1-second delay and when a unit gets in range, the Hero Giant activates his “Heroic Hurl”, grabbing the highest HP enemy troop within 2 tiles around him and throws them horizontally, also dealing damage to them when they land. While on the air, these troops are untargetable by ground-targeting troops and the Earthquake, but can still take damage from other spells. Air troops can be affected by the ability, but will take no damage when they land. The Heroic Hurl ability costs 2 Elixir to activate.

Strategy
For the purposes of determining Elixir trades, the Heroic Giant and his activated Ability count as 7 Elixir, as the player must play the 5 Elixir Heroic Giant and then spend a further 2 on his Ability.
This card would be good in Giant Graveyard decks as with its ability, it could prevent a knockback unit like the Evolved Mega Knight and the Monk from knocking it out of range of the Princess tower, so then the skeletons from the Graveyard can take the tower.
It would also be good on Giant Double Prince decks as the Giant can stil act as a tank, but now, it is able to add DPS to a troop with extra from the two brothers, so that if the unit is strong and a major threat, like the Evolved Mega Knight or Monk, you can use the Ability to knock it onto the other lane, which makes sure it can't hinder your troops' progress towards a 3 crown.
The Heroic Giant is completely ineffective against swarms, as he has no way to attack them directly, besides using his ability, which will only launch one unit.
He is also easily countered by any building, as the ability will do nothing against them. Even against the Barbarian Hut, it will, at worst, send one Barbarian away, while the remaining ones take him down.
When using the Fisherman against the Heroic Giant, he should be placed closer to the edge of the Arena instead of the center, This will cause the Heroic Giant to throw him to the other lane, but still be in range to pull the Heroic Giant to the other lane.
When using the Heroic Giant, it is always important to attack the same lane as the opponent. This allows the Heroic Giant to send their offensive card into the other lane, leaving it unsupported and easy to defeat , while their support troops are defeated by the Heroic Giant's support troops.
Statistics
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

5	1.5 sec	0.5 sec	Slow (45)	1 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Buildings	x1	Ground	Troop	Rare
Heroic Hurl Attributes
Cost
	Throwback Range

	Cast Time
	Units Affected

	Ability Target

	Unit Stun Duration
2	9	0.933 sec	1	Air & Ground	2 secs










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage Per Second
	Impact Damage

3	1851	118	78	63
4	2036	130	86	69
5	2240	143	95	76
6	2464	157	104	84
7	2710	173	115	92
8	2981	190	126	101
9	3279	209	139	112
10	3607	230	153	123
11	3968	253	168	135
12	4365	278	185	149
13	4801	306	204	163
14	5281	337	224	180
15	5810	370	246	198
16	6391	407	271	217

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

On 1/12/2025 with the December 2025 Update, the Hero Giant was added to the game along with 3 other Heroes: Knight, Mini P.E.K.K.A., and Musketeer.

2026

On 2/2/2026 the February 2026 update reduced hero giants hitpoints by 3%.
On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, made the ability single use (from 14sec cooldown).
Gallery
The current card render of the Heroic Giant
First Image of the Hero Giant in a battle pose.
Second Image of the Hero Giant in a battle pose.
The Gem for the Heroic Giant
Trivia
The Giant is 1 of 19 troops which first existed in Clash of Clans, the others being Minions, Archers, Goblins, Skeletons, Barbarians, Valkyrie, Wizard, Hog Rider, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Cannon Cart, Phoenix, Lava Hound, and the Archer Queen.
The Heroic Giant mostly resembles the Level 13 Giant from Clash of Clans. His Star Level 2 skin resembles the Level 5 Giant from Clash of Clans.
The Giant is 1 of 7 cards that are already unlocked for the player when they start playing the game, the others being the Minions, Archers, Knight, Arrows, Tower Princess, and Fireball. Despite this, the game recognizes that those cards are unlocked in the Training Camp.
The Giant is one of the first troops to be featured in Clash-A-Rama, alongside the Minions, Goblins, and Barbarians.
The Giant is one of the first troop cards to be featured in a Trainer's deck, alongside the Minions, Archers, Knight, Spear Goblins, Goblins, Bomber, Skeletons, Barbarians, Minion Horde, Mini P.E.K.K.A., Musketeer, Valkyrie, Wizard, Hog Rider, Baby Dragon, Skeleton Army, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Prince, and Balloon.
The Giant is one of the first troop cards to receive a card render, alongside the Archers, Knight, Goblins, Bomber, Skeletons, Barbarians, Bats, Royal Recruits, Skeleton Barrel, Rascals, Musketeer, Valkyrie, Wizard, Flying Machine, Hog Rider, Royal Hogs, Dart Goblin, Zappies, Elixir Golem, Baby Dragon, Skeleton Army, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Prince, Balloon, Giant Skeleton, Goblin Giant, Hunter, Electro Dragon, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Cannon Cart, Mega Knight, Ram Rider, Miner, Royal Ghost, Ice Wizard, Magic Archer, Bandit, Lava Hound, Night Witch, and Fisherman.
The Giant is 1 of 14 troops that has been featured with a Rage buff, the others being Electro Spirit, Zappies, Guards, Giant Skeleton, Goblin Giant, Electro Dragon, Wall Breakers, Electro Giant, Mega Knight, Ram Rider, Electro Wizard, Sparky, and Royal Ghost.
He is the first troop to be featured with a buff.
The Giant is 1 of 3 troops that has had its Melee range classification changed, the others being Mini P.E.K.K.A. and P.E.K.K.A..
According to The Art of Supercell, the Giant was originally supposed to be blue.
The Giant shares the first part of his description with the Golem.
The Giant is 1 of 15 troops which bring an excited reaction from the audience upon spawning and brings a collective groan from the audience when defeated, as well as a concerning gasp when the opponent plays him and applause when he's destroyed, the others include Royal Giant, P.E.K.K.A., Giant Skeleton, Rune Giant, Goblin Giant, Golem, Bowler, Electro Wizard, Inferno Dragon, Sparky, Lava Hound, Night Witch, Super Lava Hound, and the Monk.
The Giant, along with the Goblins, Barbarians, Valkyrie, Wizard, Hog Rider, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., and the Archer Queen, was featured as a non-playable opponent in Chess.
The Giant, along with the Archers, Goblins, Barbarians, Ice Spirit, Mini P.E.K.K.A., Musketeer, Wizard, Hog Rider, Witch, Prince, and Night Witch, is featured as a sticker in iMessage, in a sticker pack called Clash Theater.
In Fisherman's Float, Giants can be seen sitting in the audience.
The Giant is the subject of a few Emotes.
The Giant was featured in the winning decks of multiple Clash Royale Tournaments. More specifically:
The Giant was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale Helsinki Tournament, by a player called Jason.
The Giant was featured in the winning deck of the The Crown Duel Tournament, by a player called Backstabx.
The Heroic Giant is no longer 1 of 6 troops that cannot deal damage to other troops whatsoever, the others being the Royal Giant, Hog Rider, Royal Hogs, Elixir Golem, and Rune Giant.
Before the Giant's card release, the Giant's Hitpoints were increased by 11%, and his Damage was increased by 4%.
The Heroic Knight was one of the first Heroes to be added in the game, alongside the Knight, Mini P.E.K.K.A., and Musketeer.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

1 Comment

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis