We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 3-Elixir Cards, Heroes with 2-Elixir Abilities, Common Cards, and 2 more
English
Knight/Hero
< Knight
3
SAVE
EDIT
Hero Knight
Elixir Cost
3 
Ability Cost
2 
Rarity
Common
Type
Troop
Arena
Training Camp
Release Date
December 1 2025
“Imagine a mustache so magnificent it lures enemies to their doom! Hero Knight takes great care to wax his shield and mustache in equal measure, so as to always twist the tide of battle in his favor.”

The Heroic Knight is a Common card that is unlocked with 200 . It spawns one single-target, ground-targeting, melee, and ground troop with high hitpoints and moderate damage. The Heroic Knight takes the appearance of a man who has glowing yellow eyes, a bigger blond-colored mustache, goatee and eyebrows, and wears chainmail, a golden chestplate, a team-colored cape, a belt, platinum arm pads with a golden base, and golden shoes with platinum plates and straps on them, while wielding a large saber as his weapon and carrying a large platinum shield with a golden handle, base, mustache and goatee, along with a Hero Shard in the middle. A Heroic Knight card costs 3  to deploy.

Ability: Triumphant Taunt
“Gains a shield and taunts nearby enemies, forcing them to attack him.”

The Hero Knight has a special ability accessible from whatever side of the screen was put in, just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1-second delay, the Hero Knight activates his “Triumphant Taunt”, taunting every enemy troop and building in a 7.5-tiles range, causing them to attack him. He also gains a shield. Both the shield and the taunt effect last for 5 seconds, unless the former is destroyed, although enemy troops and buildings will still target him afterwards until he is defeated. The Triumphant Taunt ability costs 2 Elixir to activate.

Strategy
For the purposes of determining Elixir trades, the Heroic Knight and his activated Ability count as 5 Elixir, as the player must play the 3 Elixir Heroic Knight and then spend a further 2 on his Ability.
This card would be good in Goblin Barrel decks as with his ability, he will make the tower troop refocus onto himself, letting the Goblins get amazing chip damage on the tower, if left undisturbed by a spell. On the other hand, he can also work well against a Goblin Barrel, pulling the goblins away from the tower with his ability on defense.
It would also be good on things that would really need something to tank for it, like Graveyard and Skeleton Army, preferably with its Evolution. This with either would be amazing as with Graveyard, Heroic Knight doesn't have to be timed perfectly to work. You just have to place it during the same time period of a few seconds to make it work and not be a waste. Paired with the Evolved Skeleton Army, the Knight can be anywhere on your opponent's side, and until the General is close to dying, then you can use the ability. To help use it further, try to place the Knight at the front, so that it absorbs the damage regardless of the ability, and after taking the first tower, then use it when the ability range is going to affect both the King and Crown Tower left.
Spells are completely ineffective against the Heroic Knight. His shield is able to withstand a Fireball of equal Level while the Knight himself will survive any lone spell, including the Rocket. Even spells with multiple hits like the Poison and Void are ineffective against him, with the former even being unable to take out the shield by itself.
The Barbarian Barrel and Royal Delivery are slightly more effective against him, due to spawning troops that will continuously attack the Heroic Knight. However, unless he is distracted by something else, the Barbarian and Royal Recruit will not be able to defeat him.
Paired with the Mini P.E.K.K.A., Prince, or Mighty Miner you can take down something like a P.E.K.K.A., as with the ability, the P.E.K.K.A will retarget onto the Knight, while either one of the 3 damage dealers finishes her off.
Even without the ability, the Heroic Knight can still defend against many things the regular can, but unlike its Evolution, it can no longer defend better against ranged troops, with its 65% damage reduction when not attacking no longer present.
With great timing of the ability, a Heroic Knight can pull away both barrels of an Evolved Goblin Barrel for a slight negative Elixir trade.
If you have a big push coming towards an enemy tower, you can help it succeed by dropping a Heroic Knight on the other lane and activating the ability when defending troops are in range. This is especially useful if the enemy is trying to use a building or ranged troop to defend in the center, because the ability will move the defenders' attention to the other lane, allowing your push to break through.
Statistics
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

3	1.2 sec	0.5 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Common
Triumphant Taunt Attributes
Cost
	Taunt Range
	Cast Time
	Ability Duration

2	7.5 tiles	0.933 sec	5 sec










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage Per Second
	Shield Hitpoints

1	681	94	78	197
2	749	104	86	217
3	824	94	78	239
4	906	104	86	263
5	997	114	95	289
6	1097	125	104	318
7	1206	138	115	350
8	1327	152	126	385
9	1460	167	139	423
10	1605	184	153	465
11	1766	202	168	512
12	1943	222	185	563
13	2137	244	203	620
14	2351	269	224	681
15	2586	296	246	750
16	2844	325	270	825

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

On 1/12/2025, the Hero Knight was added to the game along with 3 other Heroes: Giant, Mini P.E.K.K.A., and Musketeer.

2026

On 12/1/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Hero Knight's shield hitpoints by 6%.
On 2/3/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the radius of Triumphant Taunt to 6.5 tiles (from 7.5 tiles).
On 6/4/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Taunt Trigger Window to 0.1s (from 0.7s).
On 6/7/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Hero Knight's shield hitpoints by 33%.
On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, made the ability single use (from 20sec cooldown).
Gallery
Current card render.
A render of the Heroic Knight using his ability to taunt.
A render of the Heroic Knight just standing.
A render of the Heroic Knight with his shield on.
Heroic Knight Shard.
Trivia
The word "Knight" comes from the German "Knecht", meaning "servant or vassal". Originally, knights were associated with mounted warriors, later being considered a class of lower nobility, until eventually, knighthood had become associated with the ideals of chivalry, a code of conduct for the perfect courtly Christian warrior. Often, a knight was a vassal who served as an elite fighter or a bodyguard for a lord, with payment in the form of land holdings.
The Heroic Knight was one of the first Heroes to be added in the game, alongside the Giant, Mini P.E.K.K.A., and Musketeer.
Before the Knight Hero’s release, the Triumphant Taunt’s Elixir cost was increased to 2 Elixir (from 1 Elixir), but his Shield Hitpoints were increased by 47.27%.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

3 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis