We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 5-Elixir Cards, 1-Cycles Evolutions, Epic Cards, and 2 more
English
Evolved Executioner
< Executioner
2
SAVE
EDIT
Evolved Executioner
Elixir Cost
5 
Cycle Cost
1 
Rarity
Epic
Type
Troop
Arena
Serenity Peak
Release Date
7 April 2025




“That's not an axe… This is an axe! Evolved Executioner's axe deals more damage to enemies in close quarters and pushes them back.”

The Executioner's Evolution is an Epic card that is unlocked with 6 Evolution Shards. It spawns an Executioner with identical stats to the original. The Executioner launches an axe that travels up to its maximum range, and returns back to him after some time, while piercing through enemies in both ways. If an enemy troop is within 3.5 tiles from the start of the attack, it will be knocked back, while also receiving extra damage. They will also receive the extra damage on the returning phase on the attack. He resembles a shirtless man with glowing pink eyes, wears a purple mask with gold stitches, glove with a golden stripe and boots, a team-colored kilt and pants, a belt, and a pair of straps, carries a double-sided axe with a Card Evolution symbol and a large golden knob on the bottom, and has an axe-shaped tattoo on his arm, which glows alongside his axe whenever the axe is within 3.5 tiles of range. The Executioner's Evolution costs 5 Elixir and requires 1 cycle to deploy.

Strategy
The Executioner only requires 1 cycle to evolve, and costs only 5 Elixir, which means that the player can easily use his evolution multiple times in a single match.
The Evolved Executioner can fulfill the role of the Bowler, as he'll push back all troops affected by knockback, with the added bonus of hitting aerial troops as well. This allows him to counter many things that he previously couldn't take on defense, namely the Elite Barbarians, which will be countered for a +1 Elixir trade in exchange for minimal damage dealt to the Executioner. Other troops that can be stalled more efficiently with the push back are the Knight, Mini P.E.K.K.A., Valkyrie, Hog Rider, Mega Minion, Skeleton Dragons, Baby Dragon, Royal Hogs, Battle Healer, Ram Rider, Phoenix, Electro Dragon, Rascals, Golden Knight, Monk, Balloon, and the Lumberjack.
Along with the pushback effect, he also deals extra damage if troops get close to him, allowing the Evolved Executioner to defeat those troops faster. As such, he'll be able to defeat win-conditions like the Hog Rider, Royal Hogs, Ram Rider, and the Balloon, who will be stalled with the pushback effect and rapidly defeated by the extra damage before they deal too much damage to the Crown Tower. The extra damage trait will also allow him to defeat tanky troops, such as the Giant, Royal Giant, Elixir Golem, or the Goblin Giant, though additional support is needed for the Golem or the Lava Hound, troops that he cannot handle alone, or the P.E.K.K.A., Giant Skeleton, Sparky, Mega Knight, Goblin Machine, Mighty Miner, or the Boss Bandit, which will take him down quickly.
The Evolved Executioner can be used the same manner as a normal Executioner can, being able to easily nullify the Barbarians, Royal Recruits, Goblin Gang, Minion Horde, Wall Breakers, Lava Pups, and Elixir Golemites and Blobs. On top of that, he will take both forms of the Evolved Wall Breakers without additional support and destroy them quickly, or letting them connect to the Crown Tower if misplaced.
His pushback ability will allow him to move the Balloon and the Goblin Demolisher away from a Crown Tower, stopping their death damage from hitting them. This doesn't work against the Giant Skeleton, as he isn't able to be pushed back by the axe.
The Tornado synergizes even more with the Evolved Executioner, as it will pull all troops in the Axe Smash range, letting them be taken down more quickly when otherwise they would be scattered, possibly also knocking them back if they're able to be. On the contrary, the Tornado is also a decent counter to the Evolved Executioner, bringing him away from the push back and extra damage range.
His push back will also constantly reset the Battle Ram, Evolved Battle Ram, Evolved Royal Recruits, and the Ram Rider's charge, mostly stopping each of them to gain value (as well as the Barbarians/Evolved Barbarians spawned from the former ones).
He will also reset the Inferno Dragon's ramp up damage if the Evolved Executioner is directly targeting him, since he is vulnerable to knockback and gets just in range of the push back effect. As such, the Inferno Tower and the Mighty Miner have to be used against him, as the former is a building while the latter is a heavy unit and thus cannot be pushed back by him, but one must be cautious about other ramp up damage resetters.
The Evolved Executioner's axe has a longer range than his own range, which allows him to hit support troops behind tanky units with ease, regardless of the push back and extra damage traits, or hit Crown Towers on offense. However, this can turn against him, as a Fisherman can pull him so that his axe can activate the King's Tower, or an Ice Spirit freezing him enough for a Tornado to pull him into the range of the King's Tower.
Rage will not work with the Evolved Executioner, as he will throw his axe slower to compensate for a reduction of the time his axe stays in air. Therefore, this is a waste of 2 Elixir that could be used to better support him.
The Monk can use his Pensive Protection to stall an Evolved Executioner, as a deflected axe will deal extra damage and push back the Executioner. However, that is a negative Elixir trade, and his slow movement speed will allow the Executioner to defeat him anyways.
Since he only deals extra damage and push backs close units, ranged troops with moderate hitpoints such as the Musketeer, Wizard, Electro Wizard, Cannon Cart, and the Archer Queen will easily defeat him. The Witch is also useful because the Evolved Executioner will be distracted by her spawned Skeletons over time, though this doesn't happen with the Night Witch, as she is a melee troop.
Another way of taking him down is using Fireball, Rocket, Lightning, or Poison, which are spells that can bring him to very low health (or outright defeat him), nullifying his value, and even hitting other units or an enemy Crown Tower in the mean time, though he can be used to bait those spells for other units weak to them.
Tanky melee units such as the P.E.K.K.A., Giant Skeleton, and the Mega Knight can also withstand a decent number of his extra damage hits, though they shouldn't be supported with fragile units unless placed away from them, as the Executioner will easily take those down. Also, the Boss Bandit can be affected by his push back.
If needed, an Ice Golem can be used to tank for another unit (specially melee or frail air units), distracting the Executioner for long enough so that the other unit will take him down without worrying about his push back and extra damage for a while.
When positioned properly, Bats will stall and damage him enough so that the Evolved Executioner is defeated by them and an allied Crown Tower for a +3 Elixir trade.
Statistics
Evolved Executioner Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Axe Time
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Projectile Range
	Projectile Width
	Projectile Speed
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

5	0.9 sec	0.5 sec	1.5 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	4.5	7.5	2	550	Air & Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Epic
Evolution Attributes
Cycles
	Axe Smash Range

1	2.5
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Area Damage
	Damage per second
	Axe Smash Damage
	Axe Smash Damage per second

6	795	104 x2 (208)	86	183 x2 (366)	152
7	874	115 x2 (230)	94	201 x2 (402)	166
8	962	126 x2 (252)	104	221 x2 (442)	184
9	1058	139 x2 (278)	114	243 x2 (486)	202
10	1164	153 x2 (306)	126	267 x2 (534)	222
11	1280	168 x2 (336)	140	294 x2 (588)	244
12	1408	185 x2 (370)	154	323 x2 (646)	268
13	1549	203 x2 (406)	168	356 x2 (712)	296
14	1704	224 x2 (448)	186	391 x2 (782)	324
15	1874	246 x2 (492)	204	430 x2 (860)	358
16	2061	271 x2 (542)	224	473 x2 (946)	394

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

The Executioner's Evolution card was added to the game on 7/4/2025, in the April 2025 Update.
On 1/12/2025, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Executioner’s Close Quarters Damage by 9%

2026

On 2/3/2026, a Balance Update, increased the Evolved Executioners damage by 7%, and decreased push back to 1 tile (from 1.5 tiles).
On 6/7/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Executioner’s Close Quarters Damage by 10% and decreased its Close Quarters Range to 2.5 tiles (from 3.5 tiles)
On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Executioner's projectile range to 7 tiles (from 7.5 tiles)
Gallery
Current card render.
Evolved Executioner Preview.gif
Current card preview
Executioner's Evolution Shard.
Evolved Executioner 1
Evolved Executioner 2
Trivia
In the Korean and Arabic language settings of the game, the Executioner's name translates to "Axeman". In the Chinese and Thai language settings of the game, the Executioner's name translates to "Throwing Axe Butcher" and "Hangman" respectively.
When the Evolved Executioner's axe is within Axe Smash range, the axe tattoo on his arm will light up.
Upon deployment, the Evolved Executioner exclaims "Time to slice and dice!”, “New axe!”, or “I love when they scream!”. When attacking, he may say, "Spinning!", "My axe is laughing", or "Spin into your doom!".
The Executioner is 1 of 9 evolved troops that speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Bomber, Wizard, Goblin Brawler, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Hunter, Mega Knight, and Lumberjack.
Also, the Executioner is 1 of 6 evolved troops whose regular troop do not speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Bomber, Goblin Brawler, Witch, Hunter, and Mega Knight.
The Executioner's Evolution is the subject of 2 Emotes.
Before the Executioner's Evolution's release, the Evolved Executioner's Axe push back distance was decreased to 1.5 tiles (from 2 tiles) and the Axe Smash damage was decreased by 13%.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

2 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis