We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 4-Elixir Cards, 2-Cycles Evolutions, Rare Cards, and 2 more
English
Evolved Goblin Cage
< Goblin Cage
2
SAVE
EDIT




Evolved Goblin Cage
Elixir Cost
4 
Cycle Cost
2 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Building
Arena
Goblin Stadium
Release Date
5 August 2024




“If you smell what the Goblin Brawler is cooking! Enemies that get close to the Evolved Goblin Cage are pulled inside and take damage over time until the enemy or the cage is destroyed.”

The Goblin Cage's Evolution is a Rare card that is unlocked with 6 Evolution Shards. It spawns a Goblin Cage with identical stats to the original. Once a ground troop comes within 3 tiles of the building, they get pulled into the cage and they are attacked directly by the Goblin Cage, and any troop pulled will be freed. When defeated, it spawns a Goblin Brawler with identical stats to the original. It appears to be a wooden cage with four dark violet metal supports with a golden spike on them, a lock on the front with the Card Evolution symbol on it, and a pair of bars at each side, while the Goblin Brawler appears as a larger, buff Goblin with violet eyes, mohawk and unibrow with a golden piercing, has tattoos printed on his back and arms, and sports a striped white shirt and a gold chain with the Card Evolution symbol, along with violet pants and bands tied on his hands which extends till his lower arms. The Goblin Cage’s Evolution costs 4 Elixir and requires 2 cycle to deploy.

Strategy
When the Evolved Goblin Cage pulls a unit into the cage, it won't be targeted by other units. This is especially helpful at separating win conditions, like Giant or Golem from their support troops, like Witch or Night Witch, to make defending easier.
If a troop is already on the Crown Tower, the user can deploy the Evolved Goblin Cage next to them to pull them into the cage. This can result in the Crown Tower taking significantly less damage if done properly.
Done to the Giant Skeleton, the death bomb will spawn in front of the cage, leaving the Crown Tower just outside its radius while the cage itself takes the damage for the Evolved Goblin Brawler, allowing the Brawler to leave at full health for a counterpush.
If the cage is destroyed while a troop is still inside, the troop will exit the cage with its remaining hitpoints and become targetable again.
Under most circumstances, the Earthquake is a mostly ineffective counter to the Evolved Goblin Cage. Only the cage will be destroyed, leaving the Evolved Goblin Brawler to assist in future pushes while you’re low on Elixir.
Decks with a fast cycle, such as Hog Rider decks, may still see the Earthquake as valuable since their cheap cards are able to dispose enemy pushes for large positive Elixir trades.
When an Evolved Knight is pulled inside the cage, the shield will still be active. This can be used to tank for higher pressure cards, such as a Ram Rider, Prince, or an Evolved Battle Ram, possibly preventing the Evolved Goblin Cage from getting too much defensive value.
Despite the Evolved Goblin Brawler’s higher hitpoints, the Skeletons, Goblins, Guards, Archers, or Evolved Ice Spirit deployed in the center of the arena with the help of the Crown Tower is enough to fully counter him, resulting in a large +3 Elixir trade.
The Evolved Goblin Brawler’s higher hitpoints allows it to take one additional attack from a Prince, Mini P.E.K.K.A, P.E.K.K.A, or Elite Barbarians with no Crown Tower inference compared to the regular Goblin Brawler.
The Evolved Goblin Cage is an amazing counter to the Electro Giant. The Electro Giant will be quickly pulled into the cage and if ignored, will be fully destroyed for a +3 Elixir trade before the Cage’s lifetime runs out, leaving the Goblin Brawler at full hitpoints for a counterattack. Interestingly, the reflection damage will not affect the cage itself nor the Goblin Brawler despite the Electro Giant taking damage.
Unlike the regular Goblin Cage, the Evolved Goblin Cage can be effective at destroying troops when deployed at the bridge. Any fragile ranged troops, like Dart Goblin, Firecracker, Bomber, Magic Archer, Mother Witch, or Princess placed too close to the river can be pulled in and easily killed. Troops like Knight, Ice Golem, Golden Knight, Giant, Elixir Golem, Battle Healer, Golem, Valkyrie, or Hog Rider used to tank the Crown Tower for certain win conditions, such as Miner, Goblin Barrel, or Graveyard, will no longer be targetable after being pulled in, allowing the Crown Tower to remain helpful.
When defending a Mega Knight with the Evolved Goblin Cage, it’s recommended to not kite it very far as the Mega Knight won’t be pulled into the cage while jumping. Instead, deploy the card 3 tiles to the side of the Mega Knight. This will allow the Goblin Brawler to drag him into the cage without the Mega Knight jumping and will fully counter him if unchecked.
Unlike the regular Goblin Cage, it is not a good idea to waste it on kamikaze troops like the Wall Breakers, as it will remove any chances of utilizing the pull mechanic, and the Goblin Brawler isn’t much stronger than a regular one to be worth releasing prematurely.
The 3 tile pull range of the Evolved Goblin Cage is longer than all cards with a charge, allowing them to be pulled into the cage while they’re charging without damaging it.
This is especially effective with the Ram Rider, Dark Prince, Battle Ram, and Prince as these cards will be fully countered for a +1 Elixir trade and fail to break the cage, leaving the Goblin Brawler at full hitpoints.
Statistics
Goblin Cage Attributes
Cost
	Deploy Time
	Lifetime
	Type
	Rarity

4	1 sec	20 sec	Building	Rare
Evolution Attributes
Cycles
	Hit Speed
	Range
	Target

2	1 sec	3	Ground
Evolved Goblin Brawler Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport

1.1 sec	0.2 sec	Fast (90)	Melee: Short (0.8)	Ground	x1	Ground













Level
	Goblin Cage Hitpoints
	Goblin Cage Hitpoints lost per second
	Goblin Cage Damage
	Goblin Cage Damage per second
	Goblin Brawler Hitpoints
	Goblin Brawler Damage
	Goblin Brawler Damage per second

3	364	18.2	157	157	504	157	142
4	400	20	173	173	554	173	157
5	440	22	190	190	610	190	172
6	484	24.2	209	209	671	209	189
7	533	26.6	230	230	738	230	209
8	586	29.3	253	253	811	253	229
9	645	32.2	279	279	893	279	253
10	709	35.5	306	306	982	306	278
11	780	39	337	337	1080	337	306
12	858	42.9	371	371	1188	371	337
13	944	47.2	408	408	1307	408	370
14	1038	51.9	449	449	1437	449	408
15	1142	57.1	493	493	1581	493	448
16	1256	62.8	543	543	1739	543	493

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Sound Effects
Current
Sound Effect	Action	Description	Line
	Deployment	Plays when the Evolved Goblin Cage is deployed.	"Goblin Cage!"
	Grab	Plays when the Evolved Goblin Cage grabs a troop.
	Brawls	Plays when the Goblin Brawler inside the Evolved Goblin Cage is "brawling" a troop.
	Breaking Out	Plays when the Goblin Brawler breaks out of his evolved cage.	"CAGE RAAAGE!
	Hit	Plays when the Goblin Brawler hits his target.
History

2024

The Goblin Cage Evolution card was added to the game on 5/8/2024, in the August 2024 Update.
On 2/10/2024, the Lucky Drops 2.0 Update, fixed a few bugs with the Goblin Cage's Evolution.
On 8/10/2024, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Goblin Cage’s attack time interval to 1 second (from 1.1 seconds).
On 16/12/2024, the 2024 Quarter 4 Update, added a sound effect to the Evolved Goblin Brawler after death.

2025

On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, decreased the Evolved Goblin Brawler's hitpoints by 0.16%. It also made it so that Rune Giant would no longer be able to enchant troops if captured by Evolved Goblin Cage.
On 29/9/2025, Evolved Goblin Cage no longer grabs Mega Knight mid-air.
On 6/10/2025, a Balance Update removed the Evolved Goblin Brawler's hitpoints boost.

2026

On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, increased the Evolved Goblin Cage's number of cycles to 2 (from 1), increased its trapped DPS by 9%, and decreased its ability cooldown to 0.3 seconds (from 0.5 seconds)
Gallery
Current card render.
Current card preview
Evolution Shard
Evolved Goblin Cage 1
Goblin Cage background.
Trivia
Goblins are small, grotesque, monstrous creatures that appear in the folklore of multiple European cultures. First attested in stories from the Middle Ages, they are ascribed conflicting abilities, temperaments, and appearances depending on the story and country of origin, ranging from mischievous household spirits to malicious, bestial thieves. They often have magical abilities similar to a fairy or demon, such as the ability to shapeshift. Similar creatures include duendes, kobolds, leprechauns, and ghouls.
In the German and Dutch language setting of the game, the Goblin Cage's name translates to "Kobold Cage". In the Spanish, Italian, Russian, Arabic, and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Goblin Cage's name translates to "Strongman's Cage", "Cage for Goblins", "Cage with Goblin", "Ghoul Cage", and "Leprechaun Cage" respectively.
The Goblin Cage is 1 of 6 evolved cards associated with Goblins, with the others being Mortar, Dart Goblin, Goblin Giant, Goblin Barrel, and Goblin Drill.
The Evolved Goblin Brawler has a mohawk, similarly to the Goblin Brawler’s Star Level 3 Skin.
The Evolved Goblin Cage is the cheapest 1-Cycle evolution, being 4 elixir.
Gold Crates have an appearance similar to the Evolved Goblin Cage.
When deployed, a voice can be heard exclaiming "Goblin Cage!", and when the Evolved Goblin Cage is destroyed, the Evolved Goblin Brawler yells "Cage Rage!".
The Goblin Cage is the only evolved building to speak distinct words when on the field.
The Goblin Brawler is 1 of 9 evolved troops that speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Bomber, Wizard, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Hunter, Executioner, Mega Knight, and Lumberjack.
Also, the Goblin Brawler is 1 of 6 evolved troops whose regular troop do not speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Bomber, Witch, Hunter, Executioner, and Mega Knight.
The Evolved Goblin Brawler has a weight of 87.5 kilograms according to the Clash Royale August 2024 event calendar.
The Goblin Cage's Evolution is the subject of an Emote.
The Goblin Cage's Evolution was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2024 Tournament, by a player called Mohamed Light.
The Goblin Brawler evolved due to training inside of the cage, as seen in a short.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

2 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis