We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 4-Elixir Cards, 2-Cycles Evolutions, Legendary Cards, and 2 more
English
Evolved Lumberjack
< Lumberjack
7
SAVE
EDIT




Evolved Lumberjack
Elixir Cost
4 
Cycle Cost
2 
Rarity
Legendary
Type
Troop
Arena
Serenity Peak
Release Date
3 February 2025




“When Evolved Lumberjack is destroyed, his invisible Ghost seeks vengeance as long as it's in a pool of Lumberjack's Rage. Who you gonna call?”

The Lumberjack's Evolution is a Legendary card that is unlocked with 6 Evolution Shards. It spawns a Lumberjack with identical stats to the original. When the Lumberjack dies, his ghost will spawn. The ghost has unlimited health, and can't be targeted by troops, buildings and towers, but can be affected by spells, and will disappear after a short time outside of the initial Rage Spell. The Lumberjack resembles a ginger-haired Barbarian with a beard, purple eyes, and a scarlet nose, wearing a brown belt, purple ushanka with the Card Evolution symbol in the center and kilt with gold linings, and team-colored wristbands and sandals, wielding an axe with a purple-tipped blade, a darker handle, and a golden knob on the bottom, and carries a Rage Spell on his shoulder. His ghost appears identical to him, but has pale skin and tongue, white hair, beard, mustache and eyebrows, and his axe's blade is cyan. The Lumberjack's Evolution costs 4 Elixir and requires 2 cycles to deploy.

Strategy
The Evolved Lumberjack's Ghost lasts for roughly 5.5 seconds, the same duration as his Rage Spell, which is enough time to deal significant damage to targets if not addressed.
The ghost's mechanic cannot be extended by extra Rage Spells - he will only keep his invincibility in his own Rage's radius and during its duration.
He has a good synergy with win conditions while attacking, as the ghost will take out a lot of squishy troops and deal significant damage to mini-tanks before killing your win condition.
The Evolved Lumberjack is extremely versatile on defense: add Skeletons, Goblins, Guards, or an Ice Spirit and they can defend many cards, including things such as Mega Knight, Giant Skeleton, or even a P.E.K.K.A, assuming if there is a Rage Spell involved.
Be careful when pulling an Evolved Lumberjack to your King Tower for an activation, as he will deal significant damage if the Ghost is not pulled after the initial Rage Spell is deployed.
Defending the Evolved Lumberjack mainly involves either luring the ghost out of the Rage radius or slowing it down so that the Rage time gets wasted.
Examples involve a Mini P.E.K.K.A or Prince, whereby first destroying the regular Lumberjack, due to their speed and moderate/high hitpoints, they will kite the Evolved Lumberjack, thus forcing him to leave the radius of the rage, which are good counters.
Another method involves the Freeze Spell. By Freezing the Ghost, it will outlast the rage duration, which will nullify the effect of the ghost. This works even better if you have other troops frozen as well and drop swarms for an easy defense.
A very good method for counter pushing involves kiting the ghost into the middle, so it is far from a Crown Tower to avoid damage, then playing a fast win-condition such as Hog Rider, Dart Goblin, Firecracker, or Wall Breakers to kite the ghost away, not only killing the ghost, but also pressuring the opponent.
If the ghost of the Evolved Lumberjack ever locks on, log the ghost then play a distraction. While the ghost doesn't take damage, it is still prone to knockback, slowing effects, and stuns. This includes The Log, Fireball, Rocket, and the Evolved Giant Snowball, the slowdown of the Ice Wizard and the Ice Golem's death damage, as well as the Poison and Earthquake, and the Evolved Firecracker, and the stun effect of the Zap and Lightning.
Interestingly, while it can't be targeted by a troop, it is still classed as a troop, so it can still act as a lightning rod for cards like Electro Dragon, Mega Minion, Archer Queen, Phoenix, Witch, Night Witch, Wizard, Ice Wizard, Electro Wizard, Fisherman, Goblin Cage, Bandit, Battle Ram, Musketeer, or Hunter, which helps with defending many troops, dealing a lot of extra damage.
Despite its limited lifetime, it is still a fantastic option at dealing with moderate sized pushes, as the initial Rage adds some bonus Damage which can kill some swarms that would distract the Ghost, allowing it to focus on more important targets like support units.
Defending with the Evolved Lumberjack is also possible, but instead of kiting like with the normal one, it is better to play the Evolved Lumberjack Directly on top, so that the ghost can make short work of the troops.
Statistics
Lumberjack Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

4	0.8 sec	0.4 sec	Very Fast (120)	1 sec	Melee: Short (0.7)	Ground	Ground	Troop	Legendary
Evolution Attributes
Cycles

2
Rage Attributes
Radius
	Duration
	Boost
	Target

3	5.5 sec	+30%	Friendly Troops & Buildings
Ghost Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport

0.8 sec	0.4 sec	Very Fast (120)	Melee: Short (0.7)	Ground	x1	Ground
Card Statistics
















Level
	Hitpoints
	Lumberjack Damage
	Lumberjack Damage per second
	Rage Damage
	Rage Crown Tower Damage
	Ghost Damage
	Ghost Damage per second
	Ghost Crown Damage
	Ghost Crown Damage per second

9	1060	212	265	148	45	212	265	106	132
10	1165	233	291	163	49	233	291	116	145
11	1282	256	320	179	54	256	320	128	160
12	1410	282	352	197	59	282	352	141	176
13	1551	310	387	217	65	310	387	155	193
14	1706	341	426	238	72	341	426	170	212
15	1877	375	468	262	79	375	468	187	233
16	2065	412	515	288	87	412	515	206	257

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

The Lumberjack's Evolution card was added to the game on 3/2/2025, in the February 2025 Update.
On 4/2/2025, a Balance Update made it so that Lumberjack Ghost is immune to Earthquake, Void, Poison, Tornado, Goblin Curse, Evolved Firecracker's sparks, and Evolved Tesla's pulse. It also fixed an issue with an enemy Evolved Lumberjack's sound effects.
On 11/2/2025, a maintenance break made it so that Lumberjack Ghost's lifetime is no longer affected by Rage.
On 4/3/2025, a Balance Update decreased the Rage's duration after leaving the radius to 1 second (from 2 seconds).
On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update allowed the Executioner and Ram Rider to be affected by Rage.
On 1/4/2025, a maintenance break fixed a bug where Electro Wizard could nullify Lumberjack's Evolution's death effects. It also fixed a bug where Lumberjack Ghost would deal incorrect damage.
On 9/4/2025, a Balance Update increased the cycles required to 2 (from 1), but also increased the Lumberjack Ghost's damage by 33%. The Rage's damage was also decreased by 23%.
On 4/8/2025, the August 2025 Update increased the Rage's damage by 21%.
On 6/10/2025, a Balance Update decreased the Rage's speed boost to 30% (from 35%).

2026

On 1/6/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Ghost's Tower Damage by 50%
Gallery
Current card render.
Evolved Lumberjack Preview.gif
Current card preview
Evo Shard
Evolved Lumberjack.
Evolved Lumberjack alone.
Evolved Lumberjack Ghost 1.
Evolved Lumberjack Ghost 2.
Trivia
In the Turkish, Korean, and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Lumberjack's name translates to "Woodcutter". In the Chinese and Finnish language settings of the game, the Lumberjack's name translates to "Crazy Woodcutter" and "Logman" respectively.
The Lumberjack's Evolution is 1 of 5 cards that has had its Cycles required changed, the others being Bomber, Skeletons, Ice Spirit, and Baby Dragon.
In the card's description, the "Who you gonna call?" line combined with him turning into a ghost upon death is a reference to Ghostbusters.
When attacking, the Lumberjack will say "Chop chop!" or “Timber!”. He also laughs when deployed and when the Lumberjack Ghost surges.
Along with the Knight and Barbarians, he is voice acted by John Mondelli.
The Lumberjack is 1 of 9 evolved troops that speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Bomber, Wizard, Goblin Brawler, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Hunter, Executioner, and Mega Knight.
Before the Lumberjack Evolution's release, the Lumberjack Ghost's damage was decreased by 33%.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

7 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis