We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 3-Elixir Cards, 2-Cycles Evolutions, Legendary Cards, and 2 more
English
Evolved Royal Ghost
< Royal Ghost
4
SAVE
EDIT
Evolved Royal Ghost
Elixir Cost
3 
Cycle Cost
2 
Rarity
Legendary
Type
Troop
Arena
Spooky Town
Release Date
October 17 2025
“Once he’s visible, Royal Ghost summons two Souldiers to guard his spirit, dealing damage in their summoning. When they’ve rested long enough, they’ll disappear just like their leader. Who doesn’t love a good hauntourage!”

The Evolved Royal Ghost is a Legendary card that is unlocked from the Spooky Town (Arena 12). It spawns a fast, area-damage, ground-targeting, melee, ground troop with high hitpoints and high damage. Upon deployment, he will spawn invisible and will only turn visible once he attacks. If he is in his invisible state, he will not be targeted by opposing units but can still be hit by area damage or spells. When he is not fighting any unit for 1.8 seconds, he will become invisible again. The Royal Ghost hovers, meaning he is targeted as a ground unit, but travels similar to air units. The Royal Ghost resembles an undead King who has glowing purple eyes, pale skin, white beard, moustache and eyebrows, wears a crown with purple jewels, dark gauntlets and chainmail, a team-colored robe and a purple cape with gold linings and shoes, and a dark gray belt, and wields a sword with a purple glow and the Card Evolution symbol on its handle. The Souldiers resemble ghosts with orchid-colored skin, and are dressed similarly to the Ghost, but wear chainmail, a chestplate, and a helmet with a large team-colored feather, and wield a cracked version of the Royal Ghost's sword. The Royal Ghost's Evolution costs 3 Elixir and requires 2 cycles to deploy.

Contents
1	Strategy
2	Statistics
2.1	Card Attributes
2.2	Evolution Attributes
2.3	Souldiers Attributes
3	History
4	Gallery
5	Trivia
Strategy
The Evolved Royal Ghost’s Souldiers do not despawn naturally. This makes him a great troop to counterpush with, as it could defend against an enemy troop, and have Souldiers left over.
This makes him an excellent counter to the Barbarian Hut, as he will spawn Souldiers that will shred each wave of Barbarians.
The Evolved Royal Ghost’s Souldiers having spawn damage gives him an extreme total damage when attacking when invisible, exceeding a full Poison and allowing it to OHKO units like the Musketeer and Wizard.
The Valkyrie is perhaps the best response to the Evolved Royal Ghost. Her 360° splash radius and good bulk allows her to tank the initial massive hit, then immediately clear the Souldiers and duel favorably with the Royal Ghost.
When using a Royal Delivery, Electro Wizard, or Mega Knight, it is recommended to first place a distraction troop like Skeletons to cause the Evolved Royal Ghost to turn visible, then immediately place them on the Evolved Royal Ghost to wipe off the Souldiers. In the Royal Delivery’s case, first place the Delivery and then the distraction unit due to the Delivery’s lengthy start up
If you are low on elixir, it may be best to let the Evolved Royal Ghost get close to the tower, so after the Evolved Royal Ghost finishes defeating whatever unit you use to counter him, he will not turn invisible again.
The Evolved Royal Ghost forms a strong synergy with tanks like the Giant, Royal Giant, and Golem. They help tank for him and his Souldiers. In exchange, the Evolved Royal Ghost can do extreme damage to units placed to counter the tanks like the Mini P.E.K.K.A. and Mighty Miner as well as wiping out swarms like the Goblins and Skeleton Army. The Royal Giant is notable for being ranged, giving the Evolved Royal Ghost more time to turn invisible again and renew his ability.
An extremely deadly push is the Evolved Skeleton Barrel paired with the Evolved Royal Ghost. The Evolved Royal Ghost can cripple or outright oneshot many counters to the Evolved Skeleton Barrel like the Cannon, Bomber, Firecracker, Dart Goblin, and Archers. Additionally, due to the Evolved Skeleton Barrel having two waves of skeletons and the Evolved Royal Ghost spawning Souldiers, it puts the opponent into a dilemma on when to use their spell to wipe them out. This push is particularly potent when you know your opponent’s spell and/or building is out of cycle.
The Valkyrie can be very helpful to wipe out the first wave of Skeletons, the Evolved Royal Ghost and his Souldiers. However, you will still need a response for the second wave of Skeletons. Her evolved counterpart can fully counter this push on her own, as she can pull the Skeleton Barrel back, then wipe out the second wave of Skeletons.
Statistics
Card Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Invisibility Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

3	1.8 sec	0.6 sec	Fast (90)	1 sec	2 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Legendary
Evolution Attributes
Cycles

2
Souldiers Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Invisibility Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport

1.8 sec	0.6 sec	Fast (90)	0.2 sec	2 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Ground	x2	Ground













Level
	Hitpoints
	Area Damage
	Damage per second
	Souldeiers Spawn Damage
	Souldeiers Hitpoints
	Souldiers Area Damage
	Souldiers Damage per second

9	1000	216	120	67	67	67	37
10	1100	237	131	74	74	74	41
11	1210	261	145	81	81	81	45
12	1331	287	159	89	89	89	49
13	1464	316	175	98	98	98	54
14	1611	347	192	108	108	108	60
15	1772	382	212	119	119	119	66
16	1949	420	233	130	130	130	72

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

The Royal Ghost's Evolution card was added to the game on 17/10/2025, in a maintenance break.
On 3/11/25, a balance update decreased the Souldier’s damage by 49%.
On 1/12/2025, a Balance Update nerfed the Souldier's melee and spawn damage by 22%.

2026

On 2/3/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Royal Ghost's invisibility delay to 2 seconds (from 1.8 seconds).
On 6/4/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Souldier Spawn Damage by 60% and the souldier damage by 21%
Gallery
Evolved Royal Ghost's card image in some countries.
Current card render.
Evolved Royal Ghost
Trivia
The Evolved Royal Ghost is the first card evolution to be released in the same season as another card evolution since Evolution Cannon, which released alongside Evolution Musketeer in November 2024.
The Evolved Royal Ghost is the only card to have different card images according to the player's language settings.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

4 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis