We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 4-Elixir Cards, Champions with 1-Elixir Abilities, Champion Cards, and 2 more
English
Mighty Miner
24
SAVE
EDIT




Mighty Miner
Elixir Cost
4 
Ability Cost
1 
Rarity
Champion
Type
Troop
Arena
Royal Crypt
Release Date
30 March 2022




“Walk softly... and carry a big drill! This Champion deals increasing Damage to his target and can switch lanes to escape combat or change attack plans. This makes him not only the mightiest, but also the sneakiest Miner in the Arena.”

The Mighty Miner is a Champion card that is unlocked from the Royal Crypt (Arena 17). It spawns a single-target, ground-targeting, melee, ground troop with high hitpoints and various damage stages. The Mighty Miner's damage increases over time as he remains focused on a single target, similar to the Inferno Dragon. The Mighty Miner’s ability causes him to dig underground to the horizontally opposite position of it and drop a bomb in the spot he was at which explodes after 1 second, dealing damage and inflicting knockback. He appears as a hunk with tangerine-colored hair, eyebrows and a mustache, wearing team-colored shorts, a belt, and a hat with a more advanced helmet for its candle and a crown symbol, which covers his eyes, wielding a giant drill with an emblem of a crown, which majorly resembles the Goblin Drill, has a slightly dirtied face and arms, and carries a giant bomb on his back inside a large, open backpack with a crown symbol on both sides. A Mighty Miner card costs 4 Elixir to deploy, and his ability costs an additional 1 Elixir to activate.

Ability: Explosive Escape
“Mines underground to the opposite lane, leaving a bomb at the original location. Surprise!”

The Mighty Miner has a special ability, accessible from the rightmost side of the screen just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1-second delay, the Mighty Miner changes his position to the horizontally mirrored position of himself. He is intangible while changing positions. He also drops a bomb in the position he originally was prior to using the ability, dealing medium area damage to enemies around it after 1 second. His bomb affects both ground and air units and will also knock them back 1.8 tiles. The ability goes on a 13-second cooldown after the duration ends. The Explosive Escape ability costs 1 Elixir to activate.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

For the purposes of determining Elixir trades, the Mighty Miner and his activated Ability count as 5 Elixir, as the player must play the 4 Elixir Mighty Miner and then spend a further 1 on his Ability.
Thanks to the Mighty Miner's main Inferno Tower-like attack, he can shred tanks such as the Golem, Giant Skeleton, Royal Giant, Giant, Goblin Giant, or the Mega Knight. Unlike other anti-tank cards such as the Hunter, Prince, Minion Horde, Mega Minion, Lumberjack, Inferno Dragon, Elite Barbarians, Three Musketeers, Skeleton Army, Barbarians, Sparky, Monk, and the Mini P.E.K.K.A., he packs more health and mass, giving him more survivability.
Use his ability wisely. One of his weaknesses are swarms, and Explosive Escape's bomb mitigates that. Explosive Escape's lane swapping mechanic can also be handy with cards such as reactive melee troops.
Outside of his ability, the Mighty Miner does not deal area damage. He cannot defeat Skeletons in one hit, so avoid using him to defensively kill swarms though you can spend another 1 Elixir to use his ability.
A good strategy is to send the Mighty Miner alone at the bridge. The opponent will likely spend a fair amount of Elixir to try to defend him. Then, activate his ability and place a threat card like Graveyard or Goblin Barrel in the other lane (the lane that he will resurface on). The troops that the opponent used to defend him will be weakened by the bomb and minimal Elixir is needed to defend this counterpush. Be wary, as good players can and will be prepared for it. However, if one uses this as a punishment, it can very easily take out the Crown Tower if the opponent does not have counters in hand since the opponent cannot predict if one might actually use the ability or not.
When using the Mighty Miner's ability to tank for an opposite side Graveyard, place the Graveyard first and then use the ability. This allows the Skeletons from the Graveyard to spawn in faster before the Tower starts targeting the Mighty Miner.
The Mighty Miner can defend some split-lane pushes, mostly ground ones, due to his high damage potential from his main attack, combined with Explosive Escape's lane swap mechanic.
If the Mighty Miner is deployed in the enemy side, in the position opposite of your opponent's Crown Tower, you can use the ability and quickly jump to the opponent's other Crown Tower, leaving minimal reaction time. However, this can be predicted for an Elixir advantage.
Do not counter the Mighty Miner with tanky low-damage melee cards such as the Mega Knight, Miner, Dark Prince, Battle Healer, Golden Knight, Skeleton King, Goblin Machine, Boss Bandit, Giant Skeleton, Valkyrie, or the Knight, but only if their Explosive Escape is ready. A ranged card in the center, such as the Musketeer, Electro Wizard, and the Wizard, will defend well against offensive Mighty Miners, regardless of whether he uses Explosive Escape or not.
A center-placed Tombstone also counters a proactive Mighty Miner. He has a very hard time shredding the Skeletons, and even if you use his ability (which is used to mitigate its swarm counter), he will still head for the Tombstone instead.
Likewise, a center-placed Inferno Tower will counter the Mighty Miner, regardless if the opponent decides to use the Explosive Escape ability because the Mighty Miner will always be pulled to a center Inferno Tower on either lane. However, if the opponent does not use the Explosive Escape ability, then it is a negative Elixir trade of 1. Nevertheless, the Inferno Tower can discourage future attacks on your Crown Towers because of its defensive potential.
Like the Inferno Dragon or Inferno Tower, stun cards such as the Electro Wizard, Electro Dragon, Goblinstein, Electro Giant, and Zappies can counter a reactive Mighty Miner. Before doing so, you should try to bait his Explosive Escape first with a swarm such as the Skeleton Army or Goblin Gang.
A Fisherman counters him quite well. When the Fisherman drags him to the center, value from Explosive Escape's lane swap will be minimized, and he will still be countered. Also, if you want more profit, you can drag him to activate the King Tower, but this is risky, as if the Mighty Miner has high enough health left after destroying the Fisherman, he might drill down the entire King Tower.
With the same concept, do not attempt to drag a Mighty Miner towards your King Tower with a Tornado, unless you have a spell or troop with a stun, as he might deal a high amount of damage to it.
When a Mighty Miner is nearing your Tower or you suspect Explosive Escape to be used offensively, prepare cards for the other side if a center-place can't, as his ability can head for the other Tower quickly.
The Royal Recruits are also an excellent counter to the Mighty Miner as the Royal Recruits can block both lanes and Mighty Miner will be swarmed by them, but this will result in a negative Elixir trade even if Mighty Miner uses his special ability.
Because the Mighty Miner has melee range, he's less reliable than the Inferno Dragon against building-targeting units such as the Hog Rider, Ram Rider, Wall Breakers, and the Battle Ram, which can quickly run out of range if the Mighty Miner isn't near the building he's targeting. Against the Wall Breakers, it is a good idea to use his ability to counter them, as it is able to OHKO them, and the Battle Ram can have its charge reset from its knockback.
Pairing the P.E.K.K.A. and the Mighty Miner is a good choice for a push. Deploy them together and when they reach the opponent's side, the opponent is sure to defend this push. To create tension on both sides, activate the Mighty Miner's ability. This push could get a Crown Tower or both of them down unless defended properly. However, if the opponent is smart enough, they might use a mini tank to pressurize the opponent to activate the Mighty Miner's ability, then use a swam card in the center, killing both cards for a positive Elixir trade.
The Mighty Miner's ability can be used to completely counter a Goblin Barrel if timed correctly.
The Mighty Miner can be placed as a defender in Boat Battles. However, much like other Champion cards, he is unable to use his ability. As such, he should not be set for Defense Towers in Clan Wars, and it is better to seek for other alternatives.
Statistics
Mighty Miner Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	Damage Charge

Speed 

	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

4	0.4 sec	2 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	Melee: Long (1.6)	Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Champion
Explosive Escape Attributes
Cost
	Deploy Time
	Cast Time
	Ability Cooldown

1	1 sec	0.933 sec	13 sec
Card Statistics













Level
	Hitpoints
	1 stage Damage
	1 stage Damage Per Second
	2 stage Damage
	2 stage Damage Per Second
	3 stage Damage
	3 stage Damage Per Second
	Explosive Escape Damage

11	2250	40	100	204	510	409	1022	332
12	2475	44	110	224	560	450	1125	365
13	2723	48	120	247	617	495	1237	402
14	2995	53	132	272	680	544	1360	442
15	3294	59	147	299	747	599	1497	486
16	3624	64	160	329	822	659	1647	535

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Reward
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 275,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	1 Mighty Miner card
150 
2	Deal a total of 830,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	10,000 
150 
3	Deal a total of 1,380,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
150 
Drill Master
	1	Hit Troops or buildings a total of 350 times with a fully charged drill attack	15,000 
175 
2	Hit Troops or buildings a total of 1,000 times with a fully charged drill attack	100 
175 
3	Hit Troops or buildings a total of 1,750 times with a fully charged drill attack	25,000 
175 
History

2022

The Mighty Miner card was added to the game on 30/3/2022, in the Miner Update.
On 1/4/2022, an Optional Update, fixed an issue where Mighty Miner was not being targeted correctly.
On 8/4/2022, a maintenance break, decreased the Explosive Escape's cost to 1 Elixir (from 2 Elixir) and gave the Mighty Miner knockback immunity.
On 21/4/2022, a maintenance break, decreased the Explosive Escape's exploding time to 1 second (from 3 seconds).
On 4/10/2022, a Balance Update, decreased the Mighty Miner's hitpoints by 8%.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Mighty Miner from Training Camp to Royal Crypt. This also made it so that players at any King Level could unlock the Mighty Miner, as opposed to only Level 14.
On 7/12/2022, a Balance Update, increased the Might Miner's speed to 90 (from 60), now classified as Fast.
On 22/12/2022, a maintenance break, increased the Mighty Miner's hitpoints by 5% and decreased his speed to 60 (from 90), now classified as Medium.

2023

On 6/6/2023, a Balance Update, decreased the Mighty Miner's hitpoints by 2.2%.
On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).
On 21/6/2023, a maintenance break, fixed the Mighty Miner’s Bomb inflicting too much damage.
On 8/8/2023, a Balance Update, increased the time required to change stages to 2.25 seconds (from 2 seconds).

2024

On 17/6/2024, the Goblin World Update, decreased the Explosive Escape's damage by 1.67%.

2025

On 8/1/2025, a Balance Update, decreased the time required to change stages to 2 seconds (from 2.25 seconds).
On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, allowed an underground Mighty Miner to be affected by Royal Chef.

2026

On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, made it so that the Mighty Miner would no longer have a cooldown timer in-between abilities. Instead, his ability will now be single use. His base damage was increased by 8%
Gallery
Current card render.
Mighty Miner Preview.gif
Current card preview
Mighty Miner 1
Mighty Miner 2
Concept design #1
Concept design #2
Concept design #3
Concept design #4
Trivia
The word "Mine" and by extension "Miner" come from the Celtic "meinis", meaning ore. Mining was invented from the beginning of civilization, with the oldest mine being the Ngwenya Mine in Eswatini, which radiocarbon dating shows to be about 43,000 years old. At this site Paleolithic humans mined hematite to make the red pigment ochre. Mining is still done to this day, for the extraction of rare-earth minerals for industrial use.
In the German and Arabic language settings of the game, the Mighty Miner's name translates to "Great Miner". In the French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Korean, Russian, Portuguese, Persian, Malaysian, and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Mighty Miner's name translates to "Master Miner", "Big Miner", "Colossal Miner", "Mega Miner", "Solid Miner", "Power Miner", "Nimble Miner", "Pumped up Miner", "Powerful Miner", "Superior Miner", and "Brave Miner" respectively.
The Mighty Miner is 1 of 4 cards associated with subterranea, with the others being Earthquake, Goblin Drill, and Miner.
Along with the Golden Knight, Boss Bandit, Archer Queen, Monk, and the Terry, the Mighty Miner has the cheapest ability, costing 1 Elixir.
Also along with the Golden Knight and the Terry, the Mighty Miner has the cheapest combined Elixir cost of Champion and ability, costing 5 Elixir.
The Mighty Miner is tied with Inferno Dragon and the Little Prince for the highest attack speed of all troops, with an attack speed of 0.4 seconds.
The Mighty Miner is 1 of 2 troops that deals ramp up damage, along with the Inferno Dragon.
The Mighty Miner is the only Champion card whose ability's Elixir cost was changed.
The Mighty Miner is 1 of 7 troops that has had its movement speed classification changed, the others being Skeleton Barrel, Elite Barbarians, Suspicious Bush, Goblin Brawler, Cannon Cart, and Lumberjack.
The Super Miner troop in Clash of Clans is likely inspired from the Mighty Miner, with both wielding a hand drill that deals damage overtime the longer they attack, and both having the ability to leave a bomb. However, unlike the Super Miner, the Mighty Miner drops his bomb when he uses his ability instead of after death.
The Mighty Miner is 1 of 10 cards to have an alliterative name, the others being the Royal Recruits, Goblin Gang, Mega Minion, Goblin Giant, Cannon Cart, Barbarian Barrel, Ram Rider, Dagger Duchess, and the Boss Bandit.
As he charges up his drill attack, the tip of the drill will turn different colors, with orange in Stage 2 and red in Stage 3.
Despite carrying a bomb-like backpack, he does not get rid of the bomb on his back when using his ability, probably due to the fact he can use the ability multiple times.
From his description, the “walk softly… and carry a big drill!” line is a reference to the USA President Theodore Roosevelt's quote which says “speak softly and carry a big stick”.
The Mighty Miner is unavailable in multiple special game modes. More specifically:
It is 1 of 20 cards that is unavailable in Mirror mode, the others being Minions, Cannon, Mortar, Tesla, Goblin Hut, Tombstone, Bomb Tower, Inferno Tower, Barbarian Hut, Furnace, Elixir Collector, Freeze, Clone, X-Bow, Golden Knight, Skeleton King, Archer Queen, Little Prince, and the Monk.
It is 1 of 12 cards that is unavailable in Chess Royale, the others being Royal Recruits, Rocket, Earthquake, Lightning, Poison, Goblin Drill, Miner, Golden Knight, Skeleton King, Archer Queen, Mighty Miner, and the Monk.
On 28 April 2022, according to a tweet by the Clash Royale official Twitter, the number of Mighty Miner's ability activations was 732,965,024.
The Mighty Miner is the subject of certain cosmetics in the game. More specifically:
The Mighty Miner is the subject of 2 Emotes.
The Mighty Miner is the subject of a Tower Skin.
The Mighty Miner is the subject of 2 Battle Banner items.
By using Mirror on a Clone and using it on a Mighty Miner, it is actually possible to get a Level 16 Mighty Miner.
A cloned Mighty Miner does not fall from the sky when deployed.
The initial balance change for Mighty Miner on the 6/6/2023 balance changes was a 6.5% hitpoints decrease, but it lowered to 2.2% last minute.
During the development, the Mighty Miner was originally named "Chief Miner".
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

24 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis