We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 4-Elixir Cards, Champions with 1-Elixir Abilities, Champion Cards, and 2 more
English
Golden Knight
32
SAVE
EDIT
Golden Knight
Elixir Cost
4 
Ability Cost
1 
Rarity
Champion
Type
Troop
Arena
Executioner's Kitchen
Release Date
27 October 2021







Merge

“A warrior with luxurious hair and outstanding flexibility. Demonstrates his aerobics skills on demand.”

The Golden Knight is a Champion card that is unlocked from the Executioner's Kitchen (Arena 16). It spawns a single-target, ground-targeting, melee, ground troop with high hitpoints and moderate damage. The Golden Knight's ability increases his movement speed when no enemies are nearby, and causes him to dash onto enemies in sequence, similar to the Electro Spirit's attack. He resembles a man who has blue eyes, golden hair and eyebrows, is outfitted in gilded breastplate, gauntlets, chainmail and a team-colored belt, and wields an impressively large sword. A Golden Knight card costs 4 Elixir to deploy, and his ability costs an additional 1 Elixir to activate.

Ability: Dashing Dash
“Dashes towards his enemies and chain attacks everything in his path!”

The Golden Knight has a special ability, accessible from the rightmost side of the screen just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1 second delay, the Golden Knight activates his "Dashing Dash", gaining a movement speed boost if he is not within 5.5 tiles of an enemy unit. Once a unit is in range, he dashes to it quickly, then dashes towards the closest enemy unit within a 5.5-tile radius (even if the previous unit was not destroyed). His dashes have invulnerability and deal increased damage, like the Bandit. He cannot dash into the same troop per ability use. He will stop dashing after dashing 10 times, if no other valid targets are within range, or if the last target hit is a Crown Tower. It is important to note that his movement speed boost cannot be reset or cancelled by The Log, Zap, Freeze or other things that will normally stop a charge. The ability goes on an 12 second cooldown after the duration ends. The Dashing Dash ability costs 1 Elixir to activate.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

For the purposes of determining Elixir trades, the Golden Knight and his activated Ability count as 5 Elixir, as the player must play the 4 Elixir Golden Knight and then spend a further 1 on his Ability.
Unlike the Electro Spirit, the Golden Knight cannot be forced to activate the King Tower while using the ability.
The Golden Knight's ability can be used to counter swarms for a positive Elixir trade, though it is not always recommended because of the ability's cooldown.
The number of dashes from the Golden Knight during the ability is not enough to destroy an entire Skeleton Army, leaving some Skeletons still alive, sufficient to counter the Golden Knight. Consider using a spell to clear away swarms like the Skeleton Army.
Pull the Golden Knight into the middle with a cheap unit such as a Ice Golem so that it will allow both Crown Towers to defend the Golden Knight.
Placing down cheap one Elixir cards such as Skeletons, Ice Spirit, or Electro Spirit on the side or middle of the Arena can be used to predict and cancel out the Golden Knight's Dashing Dash ability. Make sure that they are at most 5 tiles away from the river, to prevent the Golden Knight from connecting to the Crown Tower with his dash.
When using buildings to pull the Golden Knight, they should be placed 3 tiles from the river and 2 tiles from the Crown Tower. This will ensure that the Golden Knight will not dash towards the Crown Tower and will stay distracted by the building.
The Golden Knight is unique in the fact that he can dash onto multiple targets, like a Knight and Crown Tower, and still attack the original target. Because of this, it can be hard to defend against. For example, if a Valkyrie, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Lumberjack, Royal Ghost, Bandit, or a Prince is approaching a Tower, the defender will use a Knight to avoid all damage, but if a Golden Knight is approaching and the defender places a Knight close to the Tower, he will dash onto the Tower, making the defensive play less valuable.
If the player has a unit on the board that they do not want the enemy Golden Knight to reach, they must play more ground units as far away from it as possible to entice the Golden Knight to charge into the more expendable units instead.
The Golden Knight pairs well with other fast troops like the Hog Rider, Battle Ram, Elite Barbarians, Boss Bandit (in 2v2), Mini P.E.K.K.A, Lumberjack, Prince, and Bandit. All these troops are weak to swarm, which are covered by Golden Knight's dash, while they are able to connect to more potent targets. However, none of the troops can attack air troops like the Minion Horde, Mega Minion, Phoenix, and the Inferno Dragon, so pack some troops like the Wizard, Musketeer, Firecracker, Hunter, Executioner, and Electro Wizard, or spells like Arrows, Lightning, and Rocket against them.
Due to his low damage output, a mini tank such as Mini P.E.K.K.A, Battle Healer, Valkyrie, Cannon Cart, Dark Prince, Bowler, Monk, Mighty Miner, or Prince can easily take him out.
The Golden Knight cannot attack air troops, so Minions or Bats paired with any ground distraction can easily counter him for at worst a neutral Elixir trade.
Once the Golden Knight uses his ability, he will not target any units behind him unless they are in his range. In other words, Dashing Dash only chains to the troops that the Golden Knight can see. Because of this, surrounding him with swarms like Guards is an effective way to neutralize his dash, allowing those swarms to defeat him.
When dashing, he is immune to all forms of damage like the Bandit. This immunity can be extended by having him dash multiple times. There are many implications where the damage immunity is useful.
With great timing, the Golden Knight and his ability can absorb one hit from a Sparky. If necessary, his high hitpoints will allow him to survive a second attack. Together with any tower troop, he can stop her for a positive Elixir trade.
Similarly, he can absorb the Bandit's dash and the Prince's and Dark Prince's charges. In the case of the Prince and Dark Prince, his dash will also deal damage to them, fully destroying the shield of the latter, while also weakening the former.
If the Golden Knight dashes while being targeted by an Inferno Tower or Inferno Dragon, their ramp up damage will reset, allowing him to distract them for an extended period of time. This makes him an effective distraction for both, although the Golden Knight will still get incinerated.
The Golden Knight will still be able to finish his dash, even if a Fisherman pulls him. As such, it might not be a good idea to use the Fisherman against the Golden Knight.
Although the Mega Knight can stop a Golden Knight, he should not be placed directly on top of him, as his spawn damage will be completely wasted, and it also gives the Golden Knight enough time to deal damage to him.
The Golden Knight's dash is able to cross the river. Knowing this, he can be effective at taking out ranged troops that are placed near it. His dash damage is enough to OHKO equivalently levelled Wall Breakers and Bombers, and it will take down troops like the Musketeer, Electro Wizard, Goblinstein, Little Prince, Ice Wizard, and Wizard to half health, only requiring two more regular attacks to completely defeat them.
The Golden Knight's dash can be paired with spells in order to fully eliminate certain units. With The Log, he can eliminate anything up to a Mother Witch, Magic Archer, and Zappies, with Arrows, he can eliminate anything up to a Little Prince, and with Fireball, he can eliminate anything up to an Archer Queen. Consider using these combinations when you want to allow him to continue towards the Crown Tower without being distracted by those troops.
When using the ability, the Golden Knight's momentum increases significantly. This can allow him to push friendly troops closer to their target. This is especially useful with the Giant Skeleton, as it could mean that the Giant Skeleton would arrive to his target earlier, for his bomb to explode against a more valuable target.
The Electro Giant works in a similar way, as when dashing, the Golden Knight has the ability to push the Electro Giant towards faster than if it was walking alone. The Golden Knight then can also dash on to buildings or range troops used to defend against the Electro Giant.
The Golden Knight also has great synergy with Tornado. Tornado can be used to group enemy troops together for the Golden Knight to dash onto everything and might even damage the opponent's Tower.
A Golden Knight can use his ability to hit the Goblins from a Goblin Barrel. He dashes fast enough that he can defeat the Goblins for no damage.
Depending on what the player wants in their deck, they can substitute the Golden Knight with other similar cards.
In decks where different Champion cards are being used, the Bandit can be used in place of the Golden Knight. She costs 2 less Elixir, and deals more damage. However, she has less hitpoints than the Golden Knight, leaving her weak to spells like Lightning, and her dash can only hit one target.
If the player wants their fast attacking troop to have splash damage as well, they can use the Royal Ghost, Baby Dragon, or Dark Prince in place of the Golden Knight. Both have a lower Elixir cost and higher damage, with the first being able to turn invisible, the second being an air troop, thus having less counters, and the third having a shield for more spell resistance. However, the Golden Knight has significantly higher hitpoints, and a faster attack speed.
For other melee troops that have the similar hitpoints, the Knight, Prince, and Valkyrie can substitute the Golden Knight if their tanking capabilities are higher in demand. However, they are notably less mobile, with the former two also being weak to swarms.
The Golden Knight can be placed as a defender in Boat Battles. However, much like other Champion cards, he is unable to use his ability. As such, he should not be set for Defense Towers in Clan Wars, and it is better to seek for other alternatives.
Statistics
Golden Knight Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

4	0.9 sec	0.2 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Champion
Dashing Dash Attributes
Cost
	Speed
	Maximum Dash Distance
	Maximum Dashes
	Cast Time
	Ability Cooldown

1	Very Fast (120)	5.5	10	0.766 sec	12 sec
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage per second
	Dashing Dash Damage

11	1799	161	178	335
12	1979	177	196	369
13	2177	195	216	405
14	2394	214	237	446
15	2634	236	262	490
16	2897	259	287	540

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Reward
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 215,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	1 Golden Knight card
150 
2	Deal a total of 650,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	10,000 
150 
3	Deal a total of 1,080,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
150 
CHARGE!!!
	1	Hit a total of 350 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	15,000 
175 
2	Hit a total of 1,000 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	100 
175 
3	Hit a total of 1,750 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	25,000 
175 
History

2021

The Golden Knight card was added to the game on 27/10/2021, in the Champions Update.
On 1/11/2021, an Optional Update, fixed Dashing Dash so that it does not end if the Golden Knight's target dies before the dash connects with it.

2022

On 3/2/2022, a Balance Update, decreased the Dashing Dash's maximum dash range to 5 tiles (from 6 tiles) and increased its cooldown time to 11 seconds (from 8 seconds).
On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update, fixed an issue with Golden Knight not dashing properly while targeting a moving unit.
On 4/4/2022, the April 2022 Update, increased the Dashing Dash's maximum dash range to 6 tiles (from 5 tiles) but made it so that the dash would end if a Crown Tower is hit.
On 2/8/2022, a Balance Update, decreased the Golden Knight's hitpoints by 10%.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Golden Knight from Training Camp to Executioner's Kitchen. This also made it so that players at any King Level could unlock the Golden Knight, as opposed to only Level 14. It also fixed an issue where Golden Knight dashed to an empty space with no target.

2023

On 4/4/2023, a Balance Update, decreased the Dashing Dash's maximum dash range to 5.5 tiles (from 6 tiles).
On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).
On 13/11/2023, a Minor Update, fixed a bug where Golden Knight could not hit targets across the river with Dashing Dash.

2024

On 3/1/2024, a Balance Update, increased the Dashing Dash's damage by 8%.
On 5/3/2024, a Balance Update, decreased the Dashing Dash’s cooldown to 8 seconds (from 11 seconds).
On 17/6/2024, the Goblin World Update, decreased the Golden Knight's hitpoints by 0.05% and increased his damage by 0.625%.

2025

On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, allowed a dashing Golden Knight to be affected by Royal Chef.
On 5/5/2025, the May 2025 Update, allowed Dashing Dash to move Golden Knight backwards.
On 3/11/2025, a Balance Update, decreased Dashing Dash Delay to 0.05 seconds (from 0.2 seconds).

2026

On 12/1/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the cooldown of Dashing Dash to 12 seconds (from 8 seconds).
Gallery
Current card render.
Golden Knight Preview.gif
Current card preview
Golden Knight
Concept design
Trivia
The word "Knight" comes from the German "Knecht", meaning servant or vassal. Originally, knights were associated with mounted warriors, later being considered a class of lower nobility, until eventually, knighthood had become associated with the ideals of chivalry, a code of conduct for the perfect courtly Christian warrior. Often, a knight was a vassal who served as an elite fighter or a bodyguard for a lord, with payment in the form of land holdings.
In the Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Golden Knight's name translates to "Golden Armored Knight".
The Golden Knight is 1 of 20 cards associated with nobility, with the others being Knight, Royal Recruits, Royal Giant, Royal Delivery, Tower Princess, Royal Hogs, Dark Prince, Prince, Raging Prince, Mega Knight, Princess, Royal Ghost, Spirit Empress, Super Knight, Dagger Duchess, Royal Chef, Skeleton King, Archer Queen, and the Little Prince.
The Golden Knight is one of the first Champion cards to be added to the game, alongside the Skeleton King and the Archer Queen.
Along with the Boss Bandit, Archer Queen, Mighty Miner, Monk, and the Terry, the Golden Knight has the cheapest ability, costing 1 Elixir.
Also along with the Mighty Miner and the Terry, he also has the cheapest combined Elixir cost of Champion and ability, costing 5 Elixir.
When deployed, he says "Oh hi!". He sings "Golden Knight!" if Dashing Dash is activated while there are no enemies in its range, as well as making a laugh. He also lets out a wail when he dies.
The Golden Knight is 1 of 24 troops that speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Mini P.E.K.K.A., Mega Minion, Wizard, Hog Rider, P.E.K.K.A., Dark Prince, Bowler, Ram Rider, Electro Wizard, Princess, Ice Wizard, Lumberjack, Mother Witch, Fisherman, Goblin Machine, Super Mini P.E.K.K.A., Santa Hog Rider, Super Magic Archer, Boss Bandit, Archer Queen, Little Prince, and the Terry.
When the Golden Knight is defeated, his golden sword falls to the ground. The other units that drop items upon death are the Knight, Rascal Boy, Mega Minion, Dark Prince, Executioner, Mega Knight, Sparky, Fisherman, Super Knight, and the Little Prince.
The Golden Knight is unavailable in multiple special game modes. More specifically:
It is 1 of 20 cards that is unavailable in Mirror mode, the others being Minions, Cannon, Mortar, Tesla, Goblin Hut, Tombstone, Bomb Tower, Inferno Tower, Barbarian Hut, Furnace, Elixir Collector, Freeze, Clone, X-Bow, Skeleton King, Archer Queen, Mighty Miner, Little Prince, and the Monk.
It is 1 of 12 cards that is unavailable in Chess Royale, the others being Royal Recruits, Rocket, Earthquake, Lightning, Poison, Goblin Drill, Miner, Skeleton King, Archer Queen, Mighty Miner, and the Monk.
On 28 April 2022, according to a tweet by the Clash Royale official Twitter, the number of Golden Knight's ability activations was 121,809,540.
The Golden Knight is the subject of certain cosmetics in the game. More specifically:
The Golden Knight is the subject of a few Emotes.
The Golden Knight is the subject of a Tower Skin.
The Golden Knight is the subject of a few Battle Banner items.
The Golden Knight is one of the first troops to be the subject of a Battle Banner item, along with the Mini P.E.K.K.A, Dart Goblin, P.E.K.K.A, Prince, Giant Skeleton, Mega Knight, and Super Witch.
By using Mirror on a Clone and using it on a Golden Knight, it is actually possible to get a Level 16 Golden Knight.
A cloned Golden Knight does not fall from the sky when deployed.
The initial balance change for Golden Knight on the 5/3/2024 balance changes was a Dashing Dash cooldown decrease to 7 seconds (from 11 seconds), but it was raised to 8 seconds last minute.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

32 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis