We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 6-Elixir Cards, Champions with 1-Elixir Abilities, Champion Cards, and 2 more
English
Boss Bandit
5
SAVE
EDIT




Boss Bandit
Elixir Cost
6 
Ability Cost
1 
Rarity
Champion
Type
Troop
Arena
Royal Crypt
Release Date
7 April 2025




“The boss of the Forest Gang finally shows her face...kind of. Boss Bandit dashes to her targets and is invulnerable while dashing. When things get tough, her pair of grenades are at the ready.”

The Boss Bandit is a Champion card that is unlocked from the Royal Crypt (Arena 17). It spawns a single-target, ground-targeting, melee, ground troop with high hitpoints and high damage. If there are ground units between 3.5 and 6 tiles of her, she will stop moving and begin charging a dash attack which takes 0.8 seconds to execute, and will deal double damage. The Boss Bandit's ability allows her to get invisible for one second, then teleport 6 tiles behind her current spot. She appears as a woman who has teal eyes, light red hair in a ponytail and eyebrows, wields a wooden bat with three large golden bands, carries grenades, and wears a teal suit and a mask which covers her lower face, a dark brown cape with brass-colored linings, a golden headpiece, a team-colored waistcloth, brown gloves with team-colored handles and sandals, and long black socks. A Boss Bandit card costs 6 Elixir to deploy.

Ability: Getaway Grenade
“Briefly becomes invisible and teleports backwards!”

The Boss Bandit has a special ability, accessible from the rightmost side of the screen just above the player's card slots in battle. After a 1 second delay, the Boss Bandit becomes invisible for 1 second, then teleports 6 tiles behind her original position. This allows her to escape any form of damage, as well as give her another dash if the troops are far away enough. The ability goes on a 3 second cooldown after the duration ends, but it can only be activated twice. The Getaway Grenade ability costs 1 Elixir to activate.

Strategies

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

For the purposes of determining Elixir trades, the Boss Bandit and her activated Ability count as 7 Elixir, as the player must play the 6 Elixir Boss Bandit and then spend a further 1 on her Ability.
The Boss Bandit and her ability should be used cautiously, as her hefty cost could easily allow the opponent to play punish cards such as the Cannon Cart, Elite Barbarians, Hog Rider, Wall Breakers, and the Lumberjack. It could also lead to an overcommitment, as a player would have to spend up to 8 Elixir in order to get maximum value out of her. Still, being able to take out all tower troops alone with ease and being quite deadly on one-on-one interactions, the Boss Bandit will also force out high Elixir investments on the opponent's side to counter her.
Compared to the Bandit, her normal damage OHKOes anything up to a Princess, Dart Goblin, or a Rascal Girl, and her dash damage OHKOes Zappies, Magic Archer, and Mother Witch. Since both her attacks and dashes deal the same amount of damage as the Mega Knight's attacks and jumps respectively at equal levels.
She also serves as a great tank to support troops, as her hitpoints are close to the Royal Giant's for the same Elixir cost.
Her dash invulnerability will allow her to nullify charge damage from the Dark Prince and the Prince, as well as the first attack of the Valkyrie and the Fisherman, since they hit during the Boss Bandit's dash time, allowing her to be more efficient against them.
Even though anti-tank cards like the Mini P.E.K.K.A. and the Lumberjack are able to cripple her hitpoints quick enough, the Boss Bandit can use her ability to escape the troop and dash towards them again, easily taking the anti-tank card down. It can also be used preemptively, and can even be activated a second time if another anti-tank card is used. As such, troops with far higher hitpoints, such as the P.E.K.K.A., Prince, Giant Skeleton, Mega Knight, or the Goblin Machine, should be used, as they could withstand all of the Boss Bandit's dash and normal damage outputs.
When using cheaper anti-tank cards, an Ice Spirit can be used to stall the Boss Bandit for 1.2 seconds, stopping her from dealing damage and use her ability in the meantime, possibly shutting down her first ability usage. If positioned at the right time, it may even cause her to dash into it while still freezing her.
A lone Boss Bandit that has crossed the bridge can be countered by a Mini P.E.K.K.A. played above her. He will do sufficient damage to cripple her hitpoints below half quick enough, while also walking fast enough to reach the Boss Bandit after her first ability usage, stopping her from dashing into him. The outcome will be either Mini P.E.K.K.A. surviving with a slither of health or another ability activation from the Boss Bandit, being an even worse Elixir overcommitment. The Lumberjack can also have a similar effect.
Alone, a Skeleton Army is the cheapest counter to her, as the Skeletons spawned from the card is enough to keep her distracted and take her down even with her three ability activations. Evolved Skeletons can have a similar effect. However, one must watch out for 2-Elixir Spells, Bomber, Princess, Firecracker, Ice Wizard, and the Magic Archer, which are anti-swarm cards cheap enough to support the Boss Bandit and allow her to use her abilities. Heftier AoE cards used after defending opposing pushes or during Double/Triple Elixir period, such as the Valkyrie, Wizard, Baby Dragon, Witch, Dark Prince, Sparky, Evolved Mega Knight, Goblin Demolisher, Royal Ghost, Bowler, Executioner, and the Skeleton King, also need to be accounted.
The Rage is a good tool when removing swarms, as it will also boost the Boss Bandit's attack speed and reduce the dash time, allowing her to use her ability and dash faster.
A mini-tank like the Knight, Valkyrie, Battle Healer, Golden Knight, Skeleton King, or the Monk paired with Goblins or Guards, will cripple her down. The mini-tank would receive the first dash, then, when the swarm is played, tank her normal damage, while the swarm quickly chips her HP down and tank her post-ability dashes.
If the Golden Knight is taking the role of mini-tank, his own ability will be able to nullify her dash when timed properly and at a distance from her, but Boss Bandit's dash also nullifies the Golden Knight's ability, making a pretty cool interaction. The Skeleton King can also nullify her dash by activating his ability.
If Guards are taking the role of swarms, the Boss Bandit will have to take the shields down first, stalling her for even longer.
The Mighty Miner might distract her long enough to quickly deplete her hitpoints with his ramp-up damage. His hitpoints are also high enough to withstand her dashes, but if needed, a cheap distraction such as the Skeletons or Goblins can tank them for the Mighty Miner.
For a -1 Elixir trade, the Boss Bandit can escape a Rocket when timed right, allowing her hitpoints to be preserved. If she was targeting something, she'll be able to dash into the target again. This is easy to time, as the Rocket moves slowly, but one must also note that it takes 1 second to activate her ability, and she also takes around 0.9 seconds to teleport backwards.
The Boss Bandit can be placed as a defender in Boat Battles. However, much like other Champion cards, she is unable to use her ability. As such, she should not be set for Defense Towers in Clan Wars, and it is better to seek for other alternatives.
Statistics
Boss Bandit Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

6	1.1 sec	0.4 sec	Fast (90)	1 sec	Melee: Short (0.8)	Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Champion
Dash Attributes
Dash Time
	Dash Speed
	Dash Range
	Target
	Transport

0.8 sec	500	3.5-6	Ground	Ground
Getaway Grenade Attributes
Cost
	Cast Time
	Invisibility Duration
	Teleport Range
	Ability Cooldown
	Ability Count

1	0.933 sec	1 sec	6	3 sec	2
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Dash Damage
	Damage per second

11	2624	244	489	221
12	2886	268	538	243
13	3175	295	592	268
14	3493	325	651	295
15	3842	357	716	324
16	4226	393	788	357

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Rewards
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 300,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	1 Boss Bandit card
150 
2	Deal a total of 900,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	10,000 
150 
3	Deal a total of 1,500,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
150 
CHARGE!!!
	1	Hit a total of 280 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	15,000 
175 
2	Hit a total of 800 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	100 
175 
3	Hit a total of 1,400 Troops or buildings with the Charge ability	25,000 
175 
History

2025

The Boss Bandit card was added to the game on 7/4/2024, in the April 2025 Update.
On 3/6/2025, a Balance Update, decreased the Boss Bandit's hitpoints by 3%.
On 8/7/2025, a Balance Update, changed the way the Getaway Grenade operates. The Getaway Grenade can be activated a total of 2 times independent on Boss Bandit's hitpoints, with a 3-second cooldown between its uses. The same update also decreased the Boss Bandit's hitpoints by 4%.
On 12/1/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Boss Bandit's damage and dash damage by 9%, and increased it's attack speed to 1.1 (from 1.2)
Gallery
Current card render.
Boss Bandit Preview.gif
Current card preview
Boss Bandit pose.
Concept art shared by Clash Royale on YouTube.
Ditto.
Ditto.
Trivia
The Boss Bandit may be inspired by Robin Hood, an English outlaw known from robbing from wealthy families and distributing that wealth to poorer ones.
The word "Bandit" comes from the Latin "bannio", meaning 'to ban'.
The Boss Bandit is 1 of 4 cards associated with outlawry, with the others being Goblin Gang, Rascals, and Bandit.
Along with the Firecracker, Rascals, Magic Archer, and Bandit, the Boss Bandit belongs to the Forest Gang.
In the Turkish language setting of the game, the word "Boss" is not translated, making Boss Bandit the only card with a word from an foreign language in the Turkish language setting.
The Boss Bandit is the most expensive Champion card, costing 6 Elixir.
Along with the Golden Knight, Archer Queen, Mighty Miner, Monk, and the Terry, she also has the cheapest ability cost, costing 1 Elixir.
Also along with the Goblinstein, she also has the most expensive combined Elixir cost of Champion and ability, costing 7 Elixir.
The Boss Bandit is the first Champion to have a limited number of ability uses, with a maximum of two uses per deployment.
If the Boss Bandit's ability is used up, the crown symbol is currently not automatically removed.
Upon deployment, the Boss Bandit exclaims "In and out, just like that!", "Let's make this quick.", or "Let's steal the show!". When attacking a troop, she may say "Hey! Knife to meet you!", or "The crown is calling me". When Getaway Grenade is activated, she may say "Catch me if you can!", "Too slow!", "You lost me!", "Eyes on me!", or "Lost me again!". She will also whistle before dashing, and may say "Hah! Now you see me!". When idle or attacking, she may say "You wanna win the crown for me? Really?".
The Boss Bandit is 1 of 24 troops that speak distinct words when on the field, the others being Mini P.E.K.K.A., Mega Minion, Wizard, Hog Rider, P.E.K.K.A., Dark Prince, Bowler, Ram Rider, Electro Wizard, Princess, Ice Wizard, Magic Archer, Lumberjack, Mother Witch, Fisherman, Goblin Machine, Super Mini P.E.K.K.A., Santa Hog Rider, Super Magic Archer, Golden Knight, Archer Queen, Little Prince, and the Terry.
The Boss Bandit has unique lines that only play on specific occasions, which override her normal lines:
If the Boss Bandit takes down an opposing Bandit, she may say "This is why I'm the boss!". If the Boss Bandit is taken down by an opposing Bandit, she may say "Beaten by you?" If the Boss Bandit is played when an allied Bandit is on the field, she says "Bandit, watch and learn!".
If the Boss Bandit is played when an allied Firecracker is on the field, she says "You fire, I dash!".
If the Boss Bandit is played when an allied Magic Archer is on the field, she says "Cover me, sharp eyes!".
If the Boss Bandit is played when allied Rascals are on the field, she says "Trouble squad, I'm in!".
If the Boss Bandit is played when 2 or more allied Forest Gang members are on the field, she says "Forest Gang, roll out!" or "Troublemakers, party time!".
The Boss Bandit is 1 of 10 cards to have an alliterative name, the others being the Royal Recruits, Goblin Gang, Mega Minion, Goblin Giant, Cannon Cart, Barbarian Barrel, Ram Rider, Dagger Duchess, and the Mighty Miner.
The Boss Bandit is the subject of a few cosmetics in the game. More specifically:
The Boss Bandit is the subject of 3 Emotes.
The Boss Bandit is the subject of a few Battle Banner Decorations, including an animated one.
The initial balance change for Boss Bandit on the 8/7/2025 balance changes was an addition of a 5-second cooldown to Getaway Grenade, but it was lowered to 3 seconds last minute.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

5 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
Related Collections
Clash Royale
15 items
SIGN IN TO SAVE
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis