 
 
 
 Dart Goblin 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 Elixir Cost 
 
 3 
 

 
 
 Rarity 
 
 Rare 
 

 
 
 Type 
 
 Troop 
 

 
 
 Arena 
 
 Jungle Arena 
 

 
 
 Release Date 
 
 13 January 2017 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 Evolution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Merge 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Runs fast, shoots far and chews gum. How does he blow darts with a mouth full of Double Trouble gum? Years of didgeridoo lessons.” 
 The Dart Goblin is a Rare card that is unlocked from the Jungle Arena (Arena 9) . It spawns a very fast, single-target, air-targeting, long-ranged, ground troop  with low hitpoints and low damage. He resembles a Goblin , but wears a voodoo mask with red eyes, team-colored face paint and a rope behind, and leaves with team-colored tips, and holds a blowgun. A Dart Goblin card costs 3 Elixir to deploy.
 
 Modifiers [ ] 
 Common: Speedy Goblinez [ ] 
 “+100% movement speed” 
 Dart Goblin's attack speed is increased by 100%, for a total of 0.4 seconds.
 
 Rare: Call Him Darcher [ ] 
 “Magic Archer darts” 
 Dart Goblin's attacks pierce through enemies, identically to a Magic Archer .
 
 Epic: Shocking Gum [ ] 
 “Sparky darts” 
 Dart Goblin's attacks deal area damage, identically to a Sparky .
 
 Strategy [ ] 
 For Battle Decks with this card , click here . 
 
 The Dart Goblin is best used behind a tank such as a Knight , Valkyrie , Golden Knight . Skeleton King , Prince, Battle Healer , Mighty Miner , Executioner, Dark Prince , Mini P.E.K.K.A , Bowler, Monk , Lumberjack , Goblin Machine , or an Ice Golem . The tank will absorb all the damage for the Dart Goblin, and coupled with the Dart Goblin's fast hit speed and high damage per second, the combination could quickly destroy a Crown Tower . However, due to the Dart Goblin’s low hitpoints, he can be countered easily with The Log or Barbarian Barrel for a positive Elixir trade or Arrows for a neutral Elixir trade.
 Although The Log or Arrows may seem like a good and instantaneous counter to the Dart Goblin, be careful when choosing to use them as your opponent might be using a deck that baits spells . 
 The Dart Goblin's fast attack speed allows him to take care of swarms of small troops quickly. He can also easily counter a Graveyard with the help of the Tower Princess or Dagger Duchess . However, he can't survive or completely take out a Graveyard by himself. 
 Pairing the Dart Goblin with any distraction card , even something as cheap as Skeletons , can counter Elite Barbarians , Mini P.E.K.K.A., Mega Minion , Inferno Dragon , Mighty Miner, and Prince . Combined with Guards , he can even stop a P.E.K.K.A. , Boss Bandit , or a Giant Skeleton on defense. 
 Pairing the Dart Goblin with a cheap unit like an Ice Spirit can deal significant damage to a Crown Tower or act as a quick defensive combo; however, he is vulnerable to spells like Zap or The Log. For example, the Dart Goblin can take down a Balloon  with the help of a Crown Tower, but he will not stop the Balloon's death damage from reaching, and thus damaging the Crown Tower. This can be prevented by using the Ice Spirit. 
 The Dart Goblin is a very effective counter to spawner buildings, particularly the Furnace ; he can snipe the Furnace if placed 4 tiles away from the river and 2HKO the spawned Fire Spirit . 
 If there are buildings that are 4 tiles or fewer away from the river on the opponent's side, you can use the Dart Goblin to attack those buildings from your side of the Arena. A Dart Goblin outranges the Bomb Tower , Inferno Tower and Cannon , which can make him an excellent asset in battle to destroy your opponent's defenses and further your advancement plans.
 Note that the Tesla cannot be outranged because it is only vulnerable to damage when it comes out of the ground to attack. However, if the Tesla placement is 4 tiles from the river and 2 tiles from the Crown Tower, the player can place the Dart Goblin at the very edge of the bridge, and he will ignore the Tesla completely and target the Crown Tower. 
 An effective way of getting some early chip damage on your opponent's Tower Princess is by placing the Dart Goblin right at the bridge if it appears in your starting hand. His range and speed makes it extremely hard to react to and thus will catch the opponent off-guard. Even if the opponent reacts in time, it allows the player to scout the opponent's deck. 
 His range and speed allows him to easily run and get some sizeable damage to a Crown Tower or even finish it off if it has relatively low hitpoints. Even if the Dart Goblin can be defeated in one hit by a Crown Tower, he will still get 2 shots off before dying and 4 shots at full health. However, a Cannoneer and Dagger Duchess will be able to destroy him before he gets a chance to attack more than once, so the player can almost always ignore the Dart Goblin if they run a heavy deck. 
 The Dart Goblin is excellent at pulling melee units towards the middle of your side of the map due to his very long range. He can engage the unit while they approach him. 
 The Dart Goblin can be used as a distraction card, but at a high cost. He is best used as cheap and effective air defense, that can kill off a Balloon at the bridge by himself, though he allows the death bomb hit to your Tower. Used with another air defense such as an Electro Wizard , Hunter, Archer Queen , Zappies , Little Prince , or a Musketeer , he can completely defeat a raged Balloon. It is also indispensable when defending against a Lava Hound . 
 Because of the Dart Goblin's fast attack speed, he is great against tanks like the Giant , Royal Giant , Lava Hound, and Golem . Pair him with other distraction units to prevent further damage from being dealt to the Crown Tower. 
 Skeletons can distract and completely deny the Dart Goblin for 2 less Elixir, but requires some timing. 
 Dart Goblin outranges the 5.5 tile sight range of most troops. Placing Dart Goblin by the river and 2 tiles into the opposite lane will allow him to shoot enemies currently crossing the bridge without being targeted by them, since the distance will be about 7 tiles away. This is especially useful against potent medium-range units like Wizard , Executioner , Bomber , Sparky , Hunter , and Bowler , who will otherwise OHKO the Dart Goblin. This is also useful against the Ram Rider , as he will keep attacking her without her attacking him in return. 
 The Royal Ghost is a very effective counter against the Dart Goblin. With his invisibility, he can completely negate the Dart Goblin's range advantage, and he deals enough damage to OHKO a Dart Goblin of the same Level for a neutral Elixir trade, while taking no damage in return. 
 Statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Cost 
 
 Hit Speed 
 
 First Hit Speed 
 
 Speed 
 
 Deploy Time 
 
 Range 
 
 Projectile Speed 
 
 Target 
 
 Count 
 
 Transport 
 
 Type 
 
 Rarity 
 
 
 3 
 0.8 sec 
 0.35 sec 
 Very Fast (120) 
 1 sec 
 6.5 
 800 
 Air & Ground 
 x1 
 Ground 
 Troop 
 Rare 
 
 Card Statistics 
 
 
 
 
 
 Level 
 
 Hitpoints 
 
 Damage 
 
 Damage Per Second 
 
 
 3 
 122 
 73 
 91
 
 
 4 
 134 
 80 
 100
 
 
 5 
 147 
 88 
 110
 
 
 6 
 162 
 97 
 121
 
 
 7 
 178 
 107 
 133
 
 
 8 
 196 
 117 
 146
 
 
 9 
 216 
 129 
 161
 
 
 10 
 237 
 142 
 177
 
 
 11 
 261 
 156 
 195
 
 
 12 
 287 
 172 
 215
 
 
 13 
 316 
 189 
 236
 
 
 14 
 347 
 208 
 260
 
 
 15 
 382 
 228 
 285
 
 
 16 
 420 
 251 
 313
 
 There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11
 
 Card Mastery 
 
 
 Type
 
 Level/Tier
 
 Objective
 
 Reward
 
 
 Damage Dealer 
 
 1
 
 Deal a total of 145,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings 
 
 100 Dart Goblin cards 50 
 
 
 2
 
 Deal a total of 435,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings
 
 4,000 50 
 
 
 3
 
 Deal a total of 730,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings
 
 100 50 
 
 
 Hit Maker 
 
 1
 
 Hit enemy Troops a total of 1,400 times
 
 6,000 125 
 
 
 2
 
 Hit enemy Troops a total of 4,000 times
 
 100 125 
 
 
 3
 
 Hit enemy Troops a total of 7,000 times
 
 9,000 125 
 
 
 Efficient Attacker 
 
 1
 
 Land 10 attacks with a single deploy a total of 80 times!
 
 6,000 175 
 
 
 2
 
 Land 10 attacks with a single deploy a total of 240 times!
 
 8,000 175 
 
 
 3
 
 Land 10 attacks with a single deploy a total of 480 times!
 
 10,000 175 
 
 
 
 History [ ] 
 2017
 
 The Dart Goblin card was added to the game on 13/1/2017 . 
 On 16/3/2017, a maintenance break , decreased the Dart Goblin's attack time interval to 0.65 seconds (from 0.7 seconds) . This was done to fix some unexpected behaviour that the Dart Goblin showed. 
 2018
 
 On 25/4/2018, the Clan Wars Update , increased the Dart Goblin’s damage by 3% . The update also slightly changed his description. It used to read “ Runs fast, shoots far and chews gum. How does he blow darts with a mouth full of gum? Years of didgeridoo lessons. ” . 
 On 5/9/2018, the September 2018 Update , changed it so that Rare cards start at Level 3 and end at Level 13 (from 1 to 11) . 
 On 5/11/2018, a Balance Update , increased the Dart Goblin's damage by 4% . This change was voted for by the community. 
 2019
 
 On 4/2/2019, a Balance Update , increased the Dart Goblin's attack time interval to 0.7 seconds (from 0.65 seconds) , and increased his first attack time interval to 0.35 seconds (from 0.3 seconds) . 
 On 26/11/2019, the End of November 2019 Update , added a card render to the Dart Goblin's card info screen . 
 2021
 
 On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update , increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13) . 
 On 7/12/2021, the 2021 Quarter 4 Update , increased the Dart Goblin's damage by 9% . 
 2022
 
 On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update , changed the Dart Goblin's card render . 
 On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update , added the Efficient Attacker Card Mastery task for the Dart Goblin . 
 2023
 
 On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update , increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14) . 
 2024
 
 On 17/6/2024, the Goblin World Update , increased the Dart Goblin’s damage by 8.4% . It also added the Dart Goblin to the Goblin class . 
 2025
 
 On 6/1/2025, the January 2025 Update , added the Dart Goblin's Evolution . 
 On 4/2/2025, a Balance Update , decreased the Dart Goblin's damage by 5% . 
 On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update , increased the Dart Goblin's hitpoints by 0.38% , and decreased his damage by 1.48% . 
 On 4/8/2025, the August 2025 Update increased the Dart Goblin's Damage by 17% and increased his attack time interval to 0.8 seconds (from 0.7 seconds) . 
 2026
 
 On 12/1/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the dart goblins damage by 8%. 
 On 2/3/2026, a Balance Update, increased the Dart Goblin's sight range to 7.5 tiles (from 7 tiles). 
 Gallery [ ] 
 Dart Goblin's card render before 30/3/2022. Current card render. Current card preview. Dart Goblin render. 
 Trivia [ ] 
 Goblins are small, grotesque, monstrous creatures that appear in the folklore of multiple European cultures. First attested in stories from the Middle Ages, they are ascribed conflicting abilities, temperaments, and appearances depending on the story and country of origin, ranging from mischievous household spirits to malicious, bestial thieves. They often have magical abilities similar to a fairy or demon, such as the ability to shapeshift. Similar creatures include duendes , kobolds , leprechauns , and ghouls .
 In the Italian and Japanese language setting of the game, the Dart Goblin's name translates to "Blowgun Goblin". In the French, German, Spanish, Dutch, Norwegian. Arabic, Persian, Malaysian, and Vietnamese language setting of the game, the Dart Goblin's name translates to "Blowpipe Goblin", "Blowgun Kobold", "Dart-throwing Duende", "Blowpipe Kobold", "Blowing Goblin", "Arrow-blowing Ghoul", "Blowdart Goblin", "Greedy Goblin", and "Dart-throwing Leprechauns" respectively. 
 The Dart Goblin is 1 of 17 cards associated with Goblins , with the others being Spear Goblins , Goblin Gang , Baby Goblins , Goblin Demolisher , Suspicious Bush , Goblin Cage , Goblin Hut , Goblin Giant , Goblin Barrel , Goblin Curse , Goblin Drill , Goblin Machine , Party Rocket , Party Hut , Goblinstein , and of course, Goblins. 
 The Dart Goblin is making the practice of playing the didgeridoo . The didgeridoo is a wind instrument, played with vibrating lips to produce a continuous drone while using a special breathing technique called circular breathing. The didgeridoo was developed by Aboriginal peoples of northern Australia at least 1,000 years ago, and is now in use around the world, though still most strongly associated with Indigenous Australian music.
 In the Arabic language setting of the game, the Dart Goblin plays the oboe. In the Chinese language setting of the game, the Dart Goblin plays the flute. 
 The Dart Goblin is one of the first troop cards to receive a card render, alongside the Archers , Knight , Goblins , Bomber , Skeletons , Barbarians , Bats , Royal Recruits , Skeleton Barrel , Rascals , Musketeer , Giant , Valkyrie , Wizard , Flying Machine , Hog Rider , Royal Hogs , Zappies , Elixir Golem , Baby Dragon , Skeleton Army , Witch , P.E.K.K.A , Prince , Balloon , Giant Skeleton , Goblin Giant , Hunter , Electro Dragon , Wall Breakers , Bowler , Cannon Cart , Mega Knight , Ram Rider , Miner , Royal Ghost , Ice Wizard , Magic Archer , Bandit , Lava Hound , Night Witch , and Fisherman . 
 The Dart Goblin is the only troop that has been featured with a Poison Attack buff . 
 In the card's description, " Double Trouble gum " is likely a reference to the brand of gum called Dubble Bubble . 
 The Dart Goblin, along with the Minions, Bomber, Skeletons, Skeleton Dragons , Ice Spirit , Mini P.E.K.K.A , Mega Minion , Ice Golem , Elixir Golem, Goblin Brawler , Guards , Baby Dragon, P.E.K.K.A, Giant Skeleton, Golem , Wall Breakers, Bowler, Executioner , Mega Knight, Inferno Dragon , Royal Ghost, and Lava Hound, are featured as a monster in Squad Busters . 
 The Dart Goblin's C.H.A.O.S Common Modifier Speedy Goblinez is a reference to Speedy Gonzalez . 
 The Dart Goblin is the subject of certain cosmetics in the game. More specifically:
 The Dart Goblin is the subject of 3 Emotes . 
 The Dart Goblin is the subject of 2 Battle Banner items.
 The Dart Goblin is one of the first troops to be the subject of a Battle Banner item, along with the Mini P.E.K.K.A, P.E.K.K.A, Prince, Giant Skeleton, Mega Knight, Super Witch , and the Golden Knight . 
 

 
 Wiki Navigation
 
 
 
 

 
 Community
 
 
 Community
 
 Home • Game Version History • Esports • Supercell ID • Supercell Make • Glossary 
 
 
 Assets
 
 Loading Screens • Loading Screen Hints • Notifications • Soundtracks 
 
 

 
 Cards
 
 
 General
 
 About Cards • Card Overviews ( Merge Tactics ) • Battle Decks 
 
 
 Troop Cards
 
 Common 
 
 Minions • Archers ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Knight ( Evolution ) ( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Spear Goblins ( Merge Tactics ) • Goblins ( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Bomber ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Skeletons ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Barbarians ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons ( Merge Tactics ) • Fire Spirit • Bats ( Evolution ) • Royal Recruits ( Evolution ) • Royal Giant ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Ice Spirit ( Evolution ) • Berserker ( Hero ) • Skeleton Barrel ( Evolution ) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians ( Evolution ) • Minion Horde ( Evolution ) • Firecracker ( Evolution )( Merge Tactics ) • Rascals 
 
 
 Rare 
 
 Mini P.E.K.K.A. ( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Musketeer ( Evolution ) ( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Giant ( Hero • ( Merge Tactics ) • Valkyrie ( Evolution )( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Mega Minion ( Hero ) • Battle Ram ( Evolution ) • Wizard ( Evolution ) ( Hero ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs ( Evolution ) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem ( Hero ) • Dart Goblin ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Furnace ( Evolution ) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher ( Merge Tactics ) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem 
 
 
 Epic 
 
 Guards • Baby Dragon ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Skeleton Army ( Evolution ) • Witch ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • P.E.K.K.A. ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Dark Prince ( Hero ) • Prince ( Merge Tactics ) • Balloon ( Hero ) • Giant Skeleton ( Merge Tactics ) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant ( Evolution ) • Hunter ( Evolution ) • Golem • Electro Dragon ( Evolution ) • Wall Breakers ( Evolution ) • Electro Giant ( Merge Tactics ) • Bowler ( Hero ) • Executioner ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince +
 
 
 Legendary 
 
 Mega Knight ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard ( Merge Tactics ) • Inferno Dragon ( Evolution ) • Sparky • Miner • Princess ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer ( Hero )( Merge Tactics ) • Bandit ( Merge Tactics ) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack ( Evolution ) • Ronin • Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine ( Merge Tactics ) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound + • Super Witch + • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A. + • Santa Hog Rider + • Super Ice Golem + • Super Magic Archer + • Super Archers + • Wizard Trio + • Super Knight +
 
 
 Champion 
 
 Golden Knight ( Merge Tactics ) • Skeleton King ( Merge Tactics ) • Boss Bandit ( Merge Tactics ) • Archer Queen ( Merge Tactics ) • Mighty Miner • Monk ( Merge Tactics ) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry +
 
 
 Spell Cards
 
 Common 
 
 Arrows • Zap ( Evolution ) • Giant Snowball ( Evolution ) • Royal Delivery • Warmth +
 
 
 Rare 
 
 Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal 
 
 
 Epic 
 
 Goblin Barrel ( Evolution ) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel ( Hero ) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror 
 
 
 Legendary 
 
 The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket +
 
 
 Building Cards
 
 Common 
 
 Cannon ( Evolution ) • Mortar ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Tesla ( Evolution ) ( Merge Tactics ) • Barbarian Launcher +
 
 
 Rare 
 
 Goblin Cage ( Evolution )( Merge Tactics ) • Goblin Hut • Tombstone ( Hero )( Merge Tactics ) • Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower ( Merge Tactics ) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector ( Merge Tactics ) 
 
 
 Epic 
 
 X-Bow ( Merge Tactics ) • Goblin Drill ( Evolution ) 
 
 
 Legendary 
 
 Party Hut + • Rocket Silo +
 
 
 Tower Troop Cards
 
 Common 
 
 Tower Princess • Baby Goblins +
 
 
 Epic 
 
 Cannoneer 
 
 
 Legendary 
 
 Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef 
 
 
 Merge Tactics
 
 Traits
 
 Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan 
 
 
 Rulers
 
 Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin 
 
 

 
 Battle
 
 
 Basics
 
 Basics of Battle • Cards • Elixir • Card Evolution • Heroes • Buff + • Ruler Ability + • Modifiers (merge Tactics) • Equipment (Merge Tactics) 
 
 
 Modes
 
 2v2 • Touchdown • Global Spell • Heist • Troop Rush + • Treasure Hunt + • Obstacle Course + • Battleground • Chess Royale + • Trick or Treat + • C.H.A.O.S +
 
 
 Formats
 
 Training Camp • Tournament ( Special Event Challenges ) • Card Delivery 
 
 
 Trophy Roads
 
 Arenas • Ranked • Merge Tactics • Goblin Queen's Journey + • 2v2 League + • Retro Royale + • Undead March +
 
 
 Crown Towers/Rulers
 
 King's Tower • Goblin Queen Tower • Princess Tower 
 
 

 
 Gameplay
 
 
 Social
 
 Clans • Clan Wars • Clan Voyage • Friendly Battle • Trade Tokens • Emotes • Clan Chest • Clan Wars I 
 
 
 Currencies
 
 Gold • Gems • Chests • Trophies • Star Points • Magic Items • Lucky Chests • Collection Level • Experience 
 
 
 Features
 
 Shop • Pass Royale • Player Profile • Events + • Card Mastery • Battle Banners • TV Royale • Achievements • Quests • Season Shop • Daily Tasks 
 
 
 
 Current cards and features appear in blue . Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray . Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow . A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple , while Evolutions are pink , and Heroes are orange .
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 