SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 4-Elixir Cards, Common Cards, Troop Cards, Spell Valley Cards
English
Skeleton Dragons
41
EDIT
Skeleton Dragons
Elixir Cost
4 
Rarity
Common
Type
Troop
Arena
Spell Valley
Release Date
6 July 2020







Merge

“This pair of skeletal scorchers deal Area Damage and fly above the Arena. They also play a mean rib cage xylophone duet.”

The Skeleton Dragons is a Common card that is unlocked from the Spell Valley (Arena 4). It spawns two fast, area-damage, air-targeting, short-ranged, air troops with moderate hitpoints and moderate damage. Their deployment is in a horizontal formation. They appear to be smaller, skeletal versions of the Baby Dragon with team-colored wings, horns and back spikes. A Skeleton Dragons card costs 4 Elixir to deploy.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

Compared to the Baby Dragon, the Skeleton Dragons do the same amount of damage per shot each in equivalent Levels, effectively doubling the destruction with just the same cost. However, they have much less health, and attack more slowly, so they benefit much more from having other units to tank for them on offense or defense.
Whenever the player wants to make a deck and include either card in it, the Skeleton Dragons work better in decks where there are large tanks to protect them like Golem, Giant, Lava Hound, or Elixir Golem, while the Baby Dragon works better in decks where it can be used to tank for a frailer offensive card, such as a Graveyard, Miner, and Goblin Barrel.
They are weak to units that target air and outrange them, especially those that can deal area damage such as Wizard, Firecracker, and Executioner. They are usually easily destroyed when played alone. However, on defense, they are able to do quite a bit of damage to enemy troops before dying, so it is usually a neutral Elixir trade. Make sure that their placement is slightly staggered so that they do not take too much damage, allowing for a possible counterattack.
If the Skeleton Dragons has locked onto a tanky troop or building, frailer troops such as the Spear Goblins, Minions, Princess, Dart Goblin, or Archers can safely deal considerable damage to them, possibly also taking them down.
If the support of a Crown Tower is available, even tanks that do not target air units can soak the Skeleton Dragons' hits and allow the Crown Tower to take them down.
Since the Skeleton Dragons come in a pair, they can defeat Minions quickly and will usually be able to counter them and Minion Hordes if given enough distance to attack.
It is effective to pair the Skeleton Dragons with the Prince, P.E.K.K.A, Mighty Miner, or the Mini P.E.K.K.A. since most common counters to the latter are easily decimated by the former. However, the combo is countered by separating the trio, since they have different movement speeds and ranges.
The Skeleton Dragons can weaken Barbarians and Recruits, allowing the player's Crown Towers to take care of them.
The Skeleton Dragons can be kited with a well-placed Ice Golem at the center of the Arena, fully countering them with the help of another troop or the player's Crown Towers. This will not work if the Skeleton Dragons are placed in the corners of the Arena.
Their high damage per second as a pair and their low hitpoints makes them effective at baiting spells. Fireball will OHKO them, and Poison will fully defeat them if they are kept in its radius for most of its duration. The Royal Delivery will allow the Tower Princess to OHKO each Skeleton Dragon given all units are equivalently leveled. Rocket and Lightning are less common, however, and are not advisable to be used against them alone in the first place due to their high Elixir cost, which makes these spells both negative Elixir trades, with the former being even less advisable because of the Skeleton Dragons' high movement speed and the Rocket's slow travel time.
Arrows used on lone Skeleton Dragons will prevent all but one hit from being dealt to the Tower Princess for a positive Elixir trade.
The Tesla can counter the Skeleton Dragons easily, although one should prioritize using it to tackle dangerous building-targeting troops if they are present.
A Tombstone can distract the Skeleton Dragons long enough for the Crown Tower to take them out.
Due to their ability to be split and to fly, they work very well in decks that rely on dual lane pushes, with different applications of practicality:
The Skeleton Dragons pair well with the Royal Hogs. The Royal Hogs can tank for the Skeleton Dragons, while the Skeleton Dragons protect the Royal Hogs from attacking troops, especially swarms. They can also be split immediately on the river which allows the player to attack both lanes while also preventing the opponent from gaining significant value with their spells.
In Three Musketeers decks, a common way to allow them to defend against heavy air pushes is to bait their spells first before deploying them. This can be easily done with Skeleton Dragons, which will be more effective than using a different card for this purpose, as they will have already weakened the air push first.
Royal Recruits are always split when deployed, making a Skeleton Dragon split more effective than a push without them split. The Royal Recruits also have shields, which can discourage the opponent from using spells on them and the Skeleton Dragons.
They also pair well with split Elite Barbarians, for the ability to counter their weakness to swarms, especially when said swarm is used at the center of the Arena to bring the Elite Barbarians back together. Additionally, the Elite Barbarians + Skeleton Dragons combo works better than the previous combos when not split, due to the Elite Barbarians higher hitpoints and damage making them less vulnerable to strong defenders.
An even cheaper dual lane push is the Skeleton Dragons paired with Wall Breakers. The Skeleton Dragons will deal damage to cheap ranged counters to the Wall Breakers, allowing them to connect to the Tower Princess.
Conversely, the Skeleton Dragons work quite well against these types of dual lane pushes, particularly those that have troops that cannot target air.
Lone Skeleton Dragons can be stopped with a Hunter on your side. Place the Hunter below the Skeleton Dragon, and he will defeat both of them in one attack. However, this will not work if there is something that tanks for them.
When using them to support a Slow or Medium speed troop, such as a Giant, Electro Giant, or Golem, it is best to place the Skeleton Dragons a good distance behind the tank. Otherwise, the Skeleton Dragons will outpace them, and will get targeted first by the Crown Tower, which weakens the combo.
The Skeleton Dragons pair well with the Balloon. Not only do they protect the Balloon for air swarms like Bats or Minion Horde, but their high speed and mass can push the Balloon closer to the Crown Tower, making it arrive there earlier, as well as bypass some defensive building placements. However, an Inferno Tower or a tank + Anti-Air combo can counter this push, as the Skeleton Dragons' damage is not enough to take out anything bulkier than swarms in two hits.
Because of the way their staggered deploy time works, placing the Skeleton Dragons closer to the center of the Arena will result in the Skeleton Dragon that is further from the attacking unit to be targeted. After defending, they will counterattack with the healthier dragon tanking for the other one, which will result in more damage overall.
Against a Mortar or an X-Bow, it is better to place them further from the edge of the Arena, as the outer Skeleton Dragon may have to move slightly closer to the building, which can delay its attack slightly. This delay may allow the building to deal more damage to the Crown Tower or distraction troop than necessary.
Occasionally, the Skeleton Dragons can be used to snipe a defensive building on the enemy side. The Skeleton Dragons have decent range and can fly, allowing them to attack the building without being exposed into the opposing Crown Towers.
When using the Electro Wizard to counter the Skeleton Dragons, it is most recommended to drop him on top of them instead of attacking them from a distance. This will result in the Skeleton Dragons being defeated quicker due to the spawn damage.
When defending against a center-planted Goblin Barrel, the player should deploy the Skeleton Dragons on the outer side of the Arena. The Skeleton Dragons will attack the outer and bottom Goblins, while the Crown Tower focuses on the inner Goblin. This will prevent the most damage from the Goblin Barrel.
The Skeleton Dragons pair quite well with the Miner. The Miner tanks for them while the Skeleton Dragons protect him from swarms like Goblins, Minions and Bats. The pairing also works when sending the Miner on the center tile of the inner side while the Skeleton Dragons are split, as the Miner will be tanking for both Crown Towers. If doing such a push, it is most recommended to send the Miner towards the healthier Crown Tower, in order to force the opponent to defend it more heavily, while the lone Skeleton Dragon is attacking their frailer Crown Tower.
They can be quite effective against a Graveyard. Similar to Minions, they will be able to attack the Skeletons without them being attacked and their splash may also occasionally hit more than one Skeleton. Combined with the Tower Princess or Dagger Duchess, they can stop a Graveyard for a positive Elixir trade.
Even though they can deal area damage, their area of effect is small. Because of this, you can surround them with Bats and defeat them for a positive Elixir trade.
A Tornado can mitigate their small area of effect, allowing them to hit more troops at once. This is more effective when it also hits an enemy Crown Tower, especially if opposing air troops are pushed towards the Crown Tower by the Tornado.
Depending on whether the player wants more single-target damage or area damage, the Skeleton Dragons can be substituted with the Flying Machine. Both cards have similar hitpoints, being able to survive weak spells, although still being OHKOed by strong spells like Fireball or Lightning. Alternatively, they can be both utilized in the same deck, where one baits for the other to be used unharmed.
Statistics
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Splash Radius
	Projectile Speed
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

4	2 sec	0.4 sec	Fast (90)	1 sec	3.5	1.5	500	Air & Ground	x2	Air	Troop	Common







Level
	Hitpoints
	Area Damage
	Damage Per Second

1	216	62	31
2	237	68	34
3	261	75	37
4	287	83	41
5	316	91	45
6	348	100	50
7	382	110	55
8	421	121	60
9	463	133	66
10	509	146	73
11	560	161	80
12	616	177	88
13	678	195	97
14	745	214	107
15	820	236	118
16	902	259	129

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11




Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Rewards
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 140,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	200 Skeleton Dragons cards
25 
2	Deal a total of 415,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	2,000 
25 
3	Deal a total of 700,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
25 
Troop Destroyer
	1	Destroy 350 enemy Troops.	3,000 
100 
2	Destroy 1,000 enemy Troops.	200 
100 
3	Destroy 1,750 enemy Troops.	5,000 
100 
History

2020

The Skeleton Dragons were once available in the Skeleton Dragons Draft Challenge, which started on 5/6/2020. In this challenge, gameplay was similar to a regular Draft Challenge, except that one of the players was able to choose who would use the Skeleton Dragons. If the player achieved at least 3 wins, they obtained the Skeleton Dragons early.
The Skeleton Dragons card was generally released on 6/7/2020, in the July 2020 Update.
On 7/7/2020, a Balance Update, decreased the Skeleton Dragons' damage by 6%.
On 31/8/2020, the Clan Wars II Update, changed the Skeleton Dragons' sound effects. Previously, their sound effects were identical to those of the Minions.
On 6/10/2020, a Balance Update, increased the Skeleton Dragons' attack time interval to 1.9 seconds (from 1.7 seconds).

2021

On 30/3/2021, the 2021 Quarter 1 Update, added the Skeleton Dragons to all Draft selections.
On 7/6/2021, the Summer 2021 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Skeleton Dragons from Spooky Town to P.E.K.K.A's Playhouse.
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).

2022

On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update, fixed an issue where the Skeleton Dragons' Star Level used the sound effects of the Baby Dragon.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Skeleton Dragons from P.E.K.K.A's Playhouse to Spell Valley.

2023

On 6/6/2023, a Balance Update, increased the Skeleton Dragons' hitpoints by 5.8%. It also increased the distance between the Skeleton Dragons upon deployment.
On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).

2024

On 6/8/2024, a Balance Update, decreased the Skeleton Dragons' hitpoints by 0.5%.

2026

On 6/4/2026, a Balance Update, increased the Skeleton Dragons' splash radius to 1.5 tiles (from 0.8 tiles). Their hit speed was also increased to 2s (from 1.9s)
On 4/5/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Skeleton Dragons' damage by 6%
Gallery
Current card render.
Skeleton Dragons’ card render in the Chinese version of the game.
Current card preview
Skeleton Dragons 1
Skeleton Dragons 2
With Baby Dragon
Trivia
The Skeleton Dragons resemble dragons from European cultures. being reptilian legendary creatures, often depicted as winged, horned, and capable of breathing fire.
In the Chinese and Persian language settings of the game, the Skeleton Dragons' name translates to "Skeleton Wyverns".
The word "Skeleton" comes from the Greek "σκελετός" (skeletós), meaning dried up or withered.
The Skeleton Dragons is 1 of 15 cards associated with Skeletons, with the others being Bomber, Skeleton Barrel, Tombstone, Bomb Tower, Guards, Skeleton Army, Witch, Balloon, Giant Skeleton, Wall Breakers, Super Witch, Graveyard, Skeleton King, and of course, Skeletons.
The Skeleton Dragons is 1 of 5 cards associated with Dragons, with the others being Baby Dragon, Inferno Dragon, Electro Dragon, and of course, Skeleton Dragons
When defeated, Skeleton Dragons briefly crumble into a pile of bones, unlike most other Skeleton-cards which just vanish.
The Skeleton Dragons were designed after a scrapped concept of a singular Skeleton Dragon that would attack with a bomb, as well as the Beta Minions from Clash of Clans.
The Skeleton Dragons have been featured in multiple special game modes outside of the card. More specifically:
The Skeleton Dragons are 1 of 23 troops that have been featured in the Troop Rush game mode, the others being Skeletons, Fire Spirit, Bats, Elite Barbarians, Firecracker, Rascal Girls, Royal Hogs, Heal Spirit, Elixir Golem, Guards, Prince, Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Ram Rider, Sparky, Phoenix, Royal Ghost, Bandit, Lumberjack, Santa Hog Rider, and the Monk.
Along with Guards, the Skeleton Dragons in the Troop Rush game mode would spawn in random positions instead of behind the Crown Towers.
The Skeleton Dragons are 1 of 4 troops that has been featured in the Dragon Hunt sub-mode of the Treasure Hunt game mode, the others being Baby Dragon, Electro Dragon, and Inferno Dragon.
The Skeleton Dragons are 1 of 2 troops that has been featured with a Knockback Attack buff, the other being Bomber.
In the card's description, the "They also play a mean rib cage xylophone duet" line is likely a reference to a piece of music called Fossiles (Fossils) of the album "Carnival of the Animals" by Camille Saint-Saëns.
The skull of the Skeleton Dragons resembles the Halloween Obstacle from Clash of Clans.
The Skeleton Dragons and Bats are the only troops which have been available outside their card before they were released as cards. In the case of the Skeleton Dragons, they were available as a spawned troop in the Dragon Hunt sub-mode of the Treasure Hunt game mode.
The Skeleton Dragons, along with the Minions, Bomber, Skeletons, Ice Spirit, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Mega Minion, Ice Golem, Dart Goblin, Elixir Golem, Goblin Brawler, Guards, Baby Dragon, P.E.K.K.A, Giant Skeleton, Golem, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Executioner, Mega Knight, Inferno Dragon, Royal Ghost, Lava Hound, and the Skeleton King, are featured as a monster in Squad Busters.
The Skeleton Dragons are the subject of 2 Emotes.
The Skeleton Dragons were featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2023 Tournament, by a player called Mugi.
Before the Skeleton Dragons' card release, the Skeleton Dragons' area radius was increased to 0.8 tiles (from 0.6 tiles).
In other languages
In other languages
Language	Title	Meaning
	骷髅飞龙	Skeleton Wyverns.
	해골 드래곤	Same as its English name.
	スケルトンドラゴン	Same as its English name.
	Dragons squelettes	Same as its English name.
	Skelettdrachen	Same as its English name.
	Dragones esqueleto	Same as its English name.
	Draghi d'ossa	Bone Dragons.
	Skelettendraken	Same as its English name.
	Skjelettdrager	Same as its English name.
	Dragões Esqueleto	Same as its English name.
	İskelet Ejderhalar	Same as its English name.
	Luurankolohikäärmeet	Same as its English name.
	Костяные драконы	Bone Dragons.
	骷髏飛龍	Skeleton Wyverns.
	التنانين العظمية	Same as its English name.
	جفت اژدهای اسکلتی	Pair of Skeletal Dragons.
	Kerangka Naga	Same as its English name.
	Naga Jerangkong	Same as its English name.
	มังกรโครงกระดูก	Same as its English name.
	Bộ xương Rồng	Same as its English name.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

41 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Card Overviews/Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Arenas
2026/8/28
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE