SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 1-Elixir Cards, Common Cards, Troop Cards, and 2 more
English
Fire Spirit
89
VIEW SOURCE

Fire Spirit
Elixir Cost
1 
Rarity
Common
Type
Troop
Arena
Spell Valley
Release Date
3 May 2016




“The Fire Spirit is on a kamikaze mission to give you a warm hug. It'd be adorable if it wasn't on fire.”

The Fire Spirit is a Common card that is unlocked from the Spell Valley (Arena 4). It spawns a very fast, area-damage, air-targeting, short-ranged, ground troop with low hitpoints and moderate damage. It launches itself at its target when attacking, destroying itself on impact. It resembles a small chunk of flaming coal with hands, legs, and glowing eyes. It is also the same as those spawned by the Furnace. A Fire Spirit card costs 1 Elixir to deploy.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

The Fire Spirit's area damage is very useful against swarms of weak, small troops like Goblins, Spear Goblins, Bats, or Minions. However, due to its relatively low health, placing it next to these units will result in it dying before it can attack. Placing the Fire Spirit at a distance allows it to safely deploy.
Against the Mother Witch, you want to place it close to her instead, so that it is killed as part of its attack instead of being killed by the Mother Witch, otherwise she will spawn a Cursed Hog from it.
If timed correctly, a Fire Spirit can damage all the Lava Pups just as they explode from the Lava Hound, weakening them enough for the Crown Tower to finish them off.
Due to this splash, an effective strategy is to pair it with troops that deal high single hit damage but are easily stopped by the small troops mentioned, such as the Mini P.E.K.K.A and Prince.
The Fire Spirit will connect to a Tower Princess provided it is equivalently levelled. Although it can easily be stopped, its cheap cost often lures out cheap spells and can cause opponents to over-commit Elixir-wise with their defenders. If used at the start of a match, it can also act as a way to tell what deck your opponent is using based on the card that they use to stop the Fire Spirit. However, this will not work with the Cannoneer and Dagger Duchess as they will defeat the Fire Spirit before it can connect. Causing a -1 Elixir trade.
It is less feasible to ignore a Fire Spirit compared to the other Spirits because of its much higher damage, doing the same damage to Crown Towers as the Fireball.
The Fire Spirit has enough hitpoints to take a shot from most medium-sized units. The Musketeer, Executioner, Baby Dragon, Witch, Minions, Archers, Princess, Ice Wizard, Miner, Fisherman, Archer Queen, Phoenix, Electro Dragon, Magic Archer, Firecracker, Zappies, Bomber, Electro Wizard, and the Bandit, all take more than one hit to eliminate the Fire Spirit, giving it ample time to deal high damage to them.
Fire Spirit can compliment pushes effectively due to its good cost-to-damage ratio and fast movement speed. For example, if the player is pushing with a P.E.K.K.A and Fire Spirit behind and the opponent drops Minions to counter for example, the Fire Spirit drops the health of said units to be finished off by a Zap or cheap ranged units to protect the P.E.K.K.A, letting her continue towards the Tower without taking extra damage.
It is most effective with fast moving troops like the Hog Rider, Mini P E.K.K.A, Ram Rider, Prince, Dark Prince, and the Lumberjack, as they will not collide with each other as much during an attack.
The player can use units to soak it up. For example, the Skeletons or another Spirit result in a neutral Elixir trade.
For more Fire Spirit value, a Furnace costs 4 Elixir and can spawn up to 7 Fire Spirits, giving the player almost twice as many Fire Spirits for their Elixir. It can allow for more consistent chip damage to Crown Towers and can bait spells due to its cost. However, the Fire Spirits do not spawn all at once, and its upfront cost is higher, so in a situation where the player needs quick area damage, the Furnace is much less versatile.
Occasionally, it is a good idea to combine the Fire Spirit with spells to defeat certain troops for a low Elixir cost. With a Zap, it can defeat anything up to Wall Breakers, with Arrows, it can defeat anything up to Skeleton Dragons, with Fireball, it can defeat anything up to a Night Witch, and with Lightning, it can defeat anything up to an Inferno Dragon. Use these combinations when you are lacking better counters for these troops or to get a good Elixir trade that would be granted compared to using two Spells.
The Fire Spirit does not deal enough damage to take out the Guards' shields but it does deal enough damage to finish off the Guards themselves. Knowing this, you can combine the Fire Spirit with The Log or a Barbarian Barrel to counter Guards for a neutral Elixir trade, however that requires precise timing.
Pairing the Fire Spirit with Electro Spirit is very effective, as they both cost 1 Elixir, which will only use a total of 2 Elixir. This combination can take out units such as Princess, Minions, Archers, Bomber, Firecracker and can even completely stop a Goblin Barrel with the help of the Crown Tower. This combo can help a lot of decks which try to bait The Log or Arrows, since the combo is very effective against swarms. It is also good on the offensive side, having more damage potential than The Log and can hit air. The player should make sure to deploy the Spirits a short distance from their targets to ensure they can finish deploying and attack successfully.
The Log can defeat it immediately, for a slight negative Elixir trade. Beware of using the Fire Spirit in conjunction with other troops weak to The Log as it can result in the opponent gaining high spell value.
Although the Fire Spirit’s area damage radius is not enough to completely stop a Tower-centered Goblin Barrel, if you drag any card like Skeletons behind the Crown Tower and then select the Fire Spirit while your still holding the Skeletons, and then double tapping on the same tile will result in the Fire Spirit being close enough to defeat all of the Goblins. This is enough to defeat the Goblin Barrel for a +1 Elixir trade, while also saving your spell for a different card.
Statistics
Cost
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Splash Radius
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

1	Very Fast (120)	1 sec	2.5	2.3	Air & Ground	x1	Ground	Troop	Common







Level
	Hitpoints
	Area Damage

1	83	80
2	91	88
3	100	97
4	110	106
5	121	117
6	133	129
7	147	141
8	162	156
9	178	171
10	195	188
11	215	207
12	237	228
13	260	250
14	286	276
15	315	303
16	346	333

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Rewards
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 35,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	200 Fire Spirit cards
25 
2	Deal a total of 105,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	2,000 
25 
3	Deal a total of 175,000 damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
25 
Hit Maker
	1	Hit enemy Troops a total of 780 times	3,000 
100 
2	Hit enemy Troops a total of 2,200 times	200 
100 
3	Hit enemy Troops a total of 3,850 times	5,000 
100 
No Escape
	1	Hit 5 Troops with a single deploy a total of 150 times	6,000 
150 
2	Hit 5 Troops with a single deploy a total of 450 times	8,000 
150 
3	Hit 5 Troops with a single deploy a total of 900 times	10,000 
150 
History

2016

The Fire Spirits card was added to the game on 3/5/2016, in the May 2016 Update.
On 18/5/2016, a Balance Update, increased the Fire Spirits' area radius to 1.5 tiles (from 1.2 tiles).

2018

On 2/7/2018, a Balance Update, increased the Fire Spirits' damage by 5%.

2020

On 2/6/2020, a Balance Update, gave the Fire Spirits a new 0.1 seconds deploy stagger from each other.
On 9/9/2020, a Balance Update, increased the Fire Spirits' area radius to 1.7 tiles (from 1.5 tiles).

2021

On 7/6/2021, the Summer 2021 Update, reworked the card, decreasing its cost to 1 Elixir (from 2 Elixir), its unit count to 1 (from 3), increasing its hitpoints by 109%, its damage by 6%, its range to 2.5 tiles (from 2 tiles), and its area radius to 2.5 tiles (from 1.7 tiles). Its name and description were updated to reflect the count change. Its description previously read, “These three Fire Spirits are on a kamikaze mission to give you a warm hug. It'd be adorable if they weren't on fire.” It also moved the Arena to unlock the Fire Spirit from Spell Valley to P.E.K.K.A's Playhouse.
On 6/9/2021, the 2021 Quarter 3 Update, decreased the Fire Spirit's area radius to 2.3 tiles (from 2.5 tiles).
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).
On 7/12/2021, the 2021 Quarter 4 Update, decreased the Fire Spirit's range to 2 tiles (from 2.5 tiles).

2022

On 2/8/2022, a Balance Update, decreased the Fire Spirit's damage by 9%.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Fire Spirit from P.E.K.K.A's Playhouse to Spell Valley. It also added the No Escape Card Mastery task for the Fire Spirit.

2023

On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).

2025

On 4/2/2025, a Balance Update, increased the Fire Spirit's range to 2.5 tiles (from 2 tiles).
On 30/6/2025, the End of June 2025 Update, added a card render to the Fire Spirit's card info screen.

2026

On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Fire Spirit's hitpoints by 6%
Gallery
Current card render.
Current card preview
Fire Spirit 1
Fire Spirit 2
Fire Spirit 3
Fire Spirit 4
Trivia
While not available as a troop in Clash of Clans, the Fire Spirit reappears there in a few situations.
The Fire Spirit is used from one of the Siege Machines, the Flame Flinger.
The Fire Spirit is seen on top of the Super Miner's helmet as a lighter.
The Firemites (resembles Fire Spirit) is spawned from the Furnace.
The Fire Spirit, along with Skeletons, Electro Spirit, Ice Spirit, Warmth, Heal Spirit, and Heal, are the cheapest cards, costing 1 Elixir.
Among all troops with area damage, the Fire Spirit has the largest area damage radius of all troops, with a radius of 2.3 tiles.
The Fire Spirit is 1 of 8 troops to die as a part of their attack, the others being the Electro Spirit, Ice Spirit, Skeleton Barrel, Battle Ram, Heal Spirit, Suspicious Bush, and Wall Breakers.
It was the only “Spirit” card to have a spawner building version, which was the Furnace before 4/8/2025.
The Fire Spirit is 1 of 9 troops that have the same sprite for both players, the others are Skeletons, Electro Spirit, Bats, Ice Spirit, Heal Spirit, Elixir Blob, Phoenix, and Lava Pup.
In the French, Italian, Portuguese, Malaysian, and Finnish language settings of the game, the Fire Spirit's name translates to "Spirit of Fire". In the Russian, Chinese, and Persian language settings of the game, the Fire Spirit's name translates to "Fiery Spirit", "Flame Spirit" and "Fiery Soul" respectively.
The Fire Spirit is 1 of 23 troops that has been featured in the Troop Rush game mode, the others being Skeletons, Skeleton Dragons, Bats, Elite Barbarians, Firecracker, Rascal Girls, Royal Hogs, Heal Spirit, Elixir Golem, Guards, Prince, Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Ram Rider, Sparky, Phoenix, Royal Ghost, Bandit, Lumberjack, Santa Hog Rider, and the Monk.
The Fire Spirit is 1 of 23 cards that has had its Elixir cost changed, the others being Bomber, Royal Recruits, Cannon, Mortar, Musketeer, Three Musketeers, Heal, Goblin Hut, Bomb Tower, Barbarian Hut, Furnace, Elixir Collector, Skeleton Army, P.E.K.K.A., Wall Breakers, Electro Giant, Bowler, Goblin Barrel, Barbarian Barrel, Rage, Fisherman, and the Monk.
2 Fire Spirits are featured on the card image of the Rune Giant. Another Fire Spirit is featured on the card image of the Berserker.
The Fire Spirit's mouth is seen in "The Evolution of Furnace!" video.
It's also shown that the Fire Spirit has a feminine voice.
The Fire Spirit is the only card in English whose name has changed, as a result of its count changing from 3 to 1 in the Summer 2021 Update.
In Touchdown, if a Fire Spirit jumps into the enemy end zone as it attacks, it does not count as a touchdown. This is because a jumping spirit no longer counts as a troop; it becomes similar to a projectile.
The Fire Spirit is the subject of 3 Emotes.
The Fire Spirit was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2022 Tournament, by a player called Mohamed Light.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

89 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Card Overviews/Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Arenas
2026/8/28
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE