SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 3-Elixir Cards, Epic Cards, Spell Cards, Miner's Mine Cards
English
Tornado
VIEW SOURCE
Tornado
Elixir Cost
3 
Rarity
Epic
Type
Spell
Arena
Miner's Mine
Release Date
11 November 2016




“Drags enemy troops to its center while dealing damage over time, just like a magnet. A big, swirling, Tornado-y magnet.”

The Tornado is an Epic card that is unlocked from Miner's Mine (Arena 15). It is an area-damage, air-targeting spell with a very large radius and low damage that is dealt every 0.55 seconds for 1.05 seconds. It also has a singularity effect that pulls nearby troops to the center. A Tornado card costs 3 Elixir to deploy.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

The Tornado's ability to displace enemy troops is unique compared to knockback effects.
Any unit that is moving in the opposite direction to where the Tornado is pulling them will resist the pull, and the unit will not be pulled as far. Because of this, the Tornado works more efficiently the slower the target troop is. For example, a Hog Rider can resist more than a Musketeer because of the speed difference. Stationary troops are heavily influenced.
The Tornado's pull strength also depends on the mass of a unit. A Hog Rider, Lumberjack, or Mini P.E.K.K.A are relatively light, so the Tornado will displace them further than a Valkyrie, Giant, or Golem.
Any unit caught in the Tornado can attack as long as there is a target is in range. Because of this, ranged troops hardly suffer at all when being dragged away from their target, so it is better to pull them in closer to nullify their range advantage.
Charge attacks from cards like Prince, Dark Prince, Battle Ram, Ram Rider, Evolved Royal Recruits, Mighty Miner, and Inferno Dragon will not have their charges reset from the Tornado, which is not the case with knockbacks. Sparky's and Evolved Inferno Dragon's stockpiles also do not reset. The chargers also resist the Tornado's pull a lot more effectively than it would if it was not charging. However, the Inferno Dragon and Mighty Miner can still be reset if they are pulled out of range of their target.
A Tornado that pulls a Bandit or Mega Knight far enough away from their target can inadvertently trigger their charge attacks. Conversely, they can also be pulled closer to prevent them from activating their charge attacks.
Like knockback, it cannot displace buildings. The Tornado does still slightly damage them, so it can be used to finish off Crown Towers with very little health, though its deals very low damage for its Elixir cost; Zap, Arrows or Earthquake could be a better alternative.
If a troop inflicting stun effects, such as an Electro Wizard or Electro Dragon, happens to to attack the units being pulled by the Tornado, the units will stagger while being pulled, resulting in a shorter pull or even no pull at all.
The Tornado's large radius and ability to displace enemy troops make it very versatile in offensive or defensive combos.
Splash troops used in conjunction with the Tornado is a devastating combination as enemy units are clumped together in the centre of the Tornado, leaving them vulnerable to splash damage. A deadly combo is Tornado + Sparky. The Tornado can clump up enemy troops and allow the Sparky to one shot or severely damage units within her blast radius. Another combo is the Ice Wizard and Tornado. The Tornado will clump up enemy troops to be slowed by the ice Wizard, helping in defense.
The Tornado can be used to drag defending units out of the way. This is particularly effective when trying to preserve glass-cannons to maximise damage output. Tornado is also great with Graveyard, as it can pull defending units like the Valkyrie out of the way. In a similar manner, ranged troops can be pulled towards highly damaging units to nullify their range advantage. This is even more effective if there is another unit to distract. For example, if you have a Giant and Knight push, and your opponent placed a Mini P.E.K.K.A., you can pull the Mini P.E.K.K.A away from the Giant and towards the Knight, causing the Mini P.E.K.K.A to target the Knight and forcing more Elixir from the opponent.
It can also be used to drag ranged troops to any high damage dealers. This is an excellent way to play a P.E.K.K.A Tornado deck. Executioner and Wizard also pair well in the P.E.K.K.A. Tornado deck as their splashing capabilities can be used effectively with the Tornado's pull, wiping out hordes of low to medium health units. Using similar thinking, the Tornado can also pull troops to a bomb dropped by the player's Giant Skeleton or Balloon to fully defeat or at least heavily damage them.
Tornado can pull troops to be in line with the Crown Towers. This can allow piercing splash troops like the Magic Archer, Firecracker, Evolved Bomber, Bowler, and Executioner to hit the troops while also hitting the Crown Tower.
In a similar principle, the Tornado can be combined with troops that have chain attacks, like the Electro Dragon, Electro Spirit, and the Golden Knight. The Tornado can pull troops close enough for the chain attack troop to hit the first enemy and then chain on the following ones. It is most recommended to pull at most as many troops as the chain attack of the troop is able to hit.
Tornado can be used to pull building targeting troops towards buildings if the building is misplaced.
Tornado can sometimes be helpful against split lane pushes. For example, if your opponent has a Mega Knight and you responded with a P.E.K.K.A. to kite the Mega Knight away and your opponent plays a Bandit opposite lane, you can pull the Bandit towards the P.E.K.K.A such that she targets the P.E.K.K.A.
The Tornado can pull a Giant Skeleton away from the player's Crown Tower at the last second so that its death bomb does not deal any Tower damage.
For a neutral Elixir trade, it can be used to pull a Princess within range of a Crown Tower, allowing it to destroy her. However, she will still get around 1-2 hits, so this is a last resort counter.
If an opponent often distracts an X-Bow or Mortar with a single unit that is placed somewhat far back on their side, a pre-emptive Tornado placement can allow the siege building to sneakily lock onto the Crown Tower by pulling the unit out of the building's range. This is most easily done by pulling the unit backwards. The player should also try to Tornado the unit to the other lane if possible, so that it does not assist in defending the X-Bow after the pull. The player should try to make the Tornado's effect begin as soon as the opponent's unit is deployed, so that the unit does not resist the Tornado's pull by walking forward. While this will activate the opponent's King's Tower, the siege buildings themselves will never be affected by the activation. In the case of the Mortar, it can be combined with its splash, to hit both the Tower and the distracting unit. This is especially effective if the Tower is frail enough that a Mortar attack can finish it off.
In certain situations, the Tornado can also pull units inside the Mortar's blind spot in order to cause it to retarget to a more desirable target, like a Crown Tower. However, this is risky, so only do this if the defending troop gets distracted by another card that is used to protect the Mortar.
The Tornado can be used to pull opposing troops backward, allowing a Giant Skeleton bomb or P.E.K.K.A. hit to connect to the Tower instead.
Tornado synergizes very well with the Electro Giant, as it can pull opposing troops inside the Electro Giant's damaging radius. This works best against ranged troops that would otherwise stay out of the Electro Giant's damage range like Inferno Dragon, Cannon Cart, Musketeer, Sparky, Flying Machine, or Dart Goblin. A similar strategy works with the Evolved Royal Giant.
Tornado can pull a Cannon Cart away from its target. When the shielded form is defeated, it could result in its unshieded form being out of range of a troop or building that can outrange it, allowing them to defeat it without taking further damage.
The Tornado can be effectively used alongside the Poison. Troops will try to run away from the Poison, and Tornado will keep them inside the Poison for longer, while also dealing extra damage to them, which would be able to defeat certain troops that would otherwise survive, such as a Witch, Mega Minion, Hunter, or Wizard.
The Tornado also has a great synergy with the Rocket as it can pull troops towards a certain area. This will make the Rocket easier to place and it will be able to kill or severely weaken any card that is pulled in. For example, you can use the Tornado to pull together a Witch, Musketeer, and Wizard so that they will all be pulled to one location and be destroyed by the Rocket. The Rocket should be placed slightly before the Tornado, otherwise the low duration of the Tornado would not keep the troops long enough and they will walk out of Rocket's radius.
The Tornado can pull the Evolved Archers close enough to their target that will deactivate their Power Shot, and deal less damage to their target. On the other hand, it also pairs well with the Evolved Archers, as it can pull troops far enough to allow them to attack them with their Power Shot.
The Tornado's short duration means that a misplacement of this card can result in a fair Elixir deficit and heavy damage to the player's own Crown Towers; the player should always aim to have troops in the Tornado for its whole duration to maximize its pulling effect. To reduce the chance of a misplacement, use dragging instead of tapping when deploying the Tornado as the exact area of effect will be visible. The player can also tap and hold the spell before releasing it.
The Tornado's damage output is low, and is only enough to fully defeat Skeletons, Bats, Suspicious Bushes, and Decoy Goblins. However, when combined with another low cost spell, like Zap or Giant Snowball, it can defeat some bulkier troops such as Goblins, Spear Goblins, Minions, Rascal Girls, Princesses, and Dart Goblins. Although this is usually a negative Elixir trade, it can be useful to take out the opponent's defending swarms, especially when they are spread out.
The Tornado's large radius makes it useful against Clone. The low damage of the Tornado is irrelevant as all Clones only have one hitpoint. However, certain cloned troops will avoid being fully defeated, such as the Skeleton Barrel, which has a drop delay on its death spawn, meaning the Skeletons will still have to be addressed.
The Tornado can be used to activate the player's King's Tower. For most melee troops, placing the Tornado on the tile directly in front of the King's Tower and two tiles into the defending lane will cause an activation. This will allow for extra defense against future pushes, as the King's Tower is able to attack any troops that are near the Crown Towers.
Depending on how the opponent primarily gets Tower damage, taking Crown Tower damage in order to activate the King's Tower may be a wasteful play. For example, the Royal Giant will never be in range of the King's Tower while attacking a Crown Tower, weakening the effectiveness of the activation. Unless the player can take a substantial advantage of the King's Tower against other units, it may be better to simply use the Tornado in other situations.
The Tornado is especially effective at stifling Miner, Goblin Barrel, or Graveyard attacks. If the cards are placed anywhere besides the outer corner of the Crown Tower, the Tornado can force a King activation and be able to weaken these cards much more quickly in future pushes. Even if they place their card on the outer corner of the Crown Tower to try and avoid the Tornado's pull, this is easily predictable as there is no other placement where their troop can attack the tower safely.
After activating the King's Tower, the Tornado should be used to pull troops towards the center in range of all three Crown Towers to maximize the defender's advantage. Cheap troops like Skeletons can be placed as well to hold troops there for longer.
In certain situations, the Tornado may have to be combined with a singular troop like an Ice Golem to cause a King Tower activation. A good example is against the Magic Archer. The Ice Golem distracts the Magic Archer in such an angle that it also pierces the King Tower, after being pulled to the player's side by the Tornado. However, this tactic can be prevented with an opposing Tornado by pulling the troop away from the King's Tower.
Certain King Tower activation techniques are only possible with specific tower troops. For example, Wall Breakers are quickly defeated by the Dagger Duchess, preventing them from going close enough to a position where one of the two Wall Breakers can be pulled towards the King Tower with the help of the Tornado. However, the Tower Princess and Royal Chef can pull this technique much more reliably.
It is not recommended to pull highly damaging troops to the King's Tower such as the Golem, Balloon, Elite Barbarians, Prince, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Inferno Dragon, Mighty Miner, or P.E.K.K.A. more than once. Extremely high-health troops will be able to survive the attacks of the three Crown Towers for very long, allowing other troops to do significant damage to the Crown Towers if unopposed. Additionally, they will likely do significant damage to the King's Tower, opening up the possibility for a back door three-crown loss.
There is a more detailed blog with visualisations about how to activate your King's Tower. Click this for more information.
Using Rage on a troop can make it more resistant to the effects of the Tornado. As such, it should not be used against raged troops, and it should also not be used in the Rage sub-mode of the Global Spell game mode.
Statistics
Cost
	Radius
	Duration
	Target
	Type
	Rarity

3	5.5	1.05 sec	Air & Ground	Spell	Epic







Level
	Area Damage
	Crown Tower Damage

6	52	18
7	57	20
8	63	22
9	69	24
10	76	26
11	84	29
12	92	32
13	102	35
14	112	39
15	123	42
16	135	47

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Reward
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 70,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	20 Tornado cards
75 
2	Deal a total of 210,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	6,000 
75 
3	Deal a total of 350,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
75 
Hit Maker
	1	Hit enemy Troops a total of 1,350 times	9,000 
125 
2	Hit enemy Troops a total of 3,800 times	20 
125 
3	Hit enemy Troops a total of 6,650 times	15,000 
125 
History

2016

The Tornado card was added to the game on 11/11/2016.
On 15/12/2016, the December 2016 Update, increased its area radius to 5.5 tiles (from 5 tiles) and increased its pulling power to 220% (from 60%). This update also changed its description. It used to say: "Drags enemy troops to the center of the Tornado while dealing damage over time. Doesn't affect buildings."

2017

On 13/3/2017, the March 2017 Update, allowed the Tornado to be placed on buildings.
On 12/6/2017, a June 2017 Update, decreased the Tornado's duration to 2.55 seconds (from 3.05 seconds), but allowed multiple Tornado spells to stack.

2018

On 25/4/2018, the Clan Wars Update, increased the Tornado‘s damage per second by 21%, but also decreased the duration to 2.05 seconds (from 2.55 seconds). It also allowed the Tornado to be placed on the river.
On 20/6/2018, the Summer 2018 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Tornado from Builder's Workshop to Frozen Peak.
On 5/9/2018, the September 2018 Update, changed it so that Epic cards start at Level 6 and end at Level 13 (from 1 to 8).
On 1/10/2018, a Balance Update, fixed a bug where troops that were spawned after their parent troops died would be immune to spell damage.

2019

On 28/1/2019, the January 2019 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Tornado from Frozen Peak to Spell Valley.

2020

On 5/5/2020, a Balance Update, decreased the Tornado's duration to 1.05 second (from 2.05 seconds), increased its pulling power to 360% (from 220%), and increased its damage by 100%. It was also changed to damage buildings. As a result, the "Doesn't affect buildings." line from its description was removed.

2021

On 7/6/2021, the Summer 2021 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Tornado from Spell Valley to Legendary Arena. It also added a card render to the Tornado's card info screen.
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).
On 15/11/2021, a Minor Update, allowed the Tornado to deal damage to Champion cards when they activate their ability.

2022

On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update, fixed an issue where troops could sometimes ignore the pull effect of Tornado.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Tornado from Legendary Arena to Miner's Mine.

2023

On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14). It also fixed an issue with some cards continuing to attack Crown Towers after being pulled out of range by Tornado.

2025

On 4/2/2025, a Balance Update, made it so that Lumberjack Ghost is immune to Tornado.
On 9/4/2025, a Balance Update, increased the Tornado's attack time interval to 0.55 seconds (from 0.5 seconds).
Gallery
Card render
Current card preview
Tornado 2
Trivia
The word "Tornado" comes from the Latin "tonare" (tonō), meaning 'to thunder'.
In the Chinese language settings of the game, the Tornado's name translates to "Hurricane Spell".
The Tornado is the only spell from Clash Royale to inspire a trap in Clash of Clans, that being the Tornado Trap.
The Tornado has the largest area of effect, with a radius of 5.5 tiles. This means that it is also the only card that can affect all 3 Crown Towers at once.
The Tornado is 1 of 4 damaging spell cards that does not contain the phrase "Reduced damage to Crown Towers." in its description despite dealing reduced damage to Crown Towers, with the others being Earthquake, Goblin Curse, and Rage.
The Tornado is 1 of 7 spells which have team-colored rings on their radius, the others are Earthquake, Freeze, Poison, Rage, Clone, Graveyard, and Goblin Curse.
The card image shows a tornado with a pig being sucked into the tornado. On its card render, 2 Royal Hogs are featured in the tornado's vicinity.
The original concept for the Tornado was a Butterfly spell that was used for distracting troops. However, it was replaced with the Tornado due to visual problems.
It appeared in the picture for the balance changes in the November 2016 Update before it was officially announced that it was going to be added to the game.
The Tornado was featured in the winning decks of multiple Clash Royale Tournaments. More specifically:
The Tornado was featured in the winning deck of the King's Cup II Tournament, by a player called Surgical Goblin.
The Tornado was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2018 Tournament, by a player called Lciop.
The Tornado was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2019 Tournament, by a player called Surgical Goblin.
The Tornado was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2021 Tournament, by a player called Mugi.
The Tornado has had balance changes that were planned for it but were not added to the game. More specifically:
The initial balance change for Tornado on the 5/5/2020 balance changes was a pull power increase to 440% (from 220%), but it was lowered to 360% last minute.
On 7/2/2023, the Tornado was supposed to receive a 6% damage decrease, but this change was pulled back last minute.
Wiki Navigation

Community
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Battle
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

Comments

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Card Overviews/Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Arenas
2026/8/28
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE