We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 7-Elixir Cards, Legendary Cards, Troop Cards, Rascal's Hideout Cards
English
Lava Hound
SAVE
EDIT

Lava Hound
Elixir Cost
7 
Rarity
Legendary
Type
Troop
Arena
Rascal's Hideout
Release Date
3 May 2016




“The Lava Hound is a majestic flying beast that attacks buildings. The Lava Pups are less majestic angry babies that attack anything.”

The Lava Hound is a Legendary card that is unlocked from the Rascal's Hideout (Arena 13). It spawns a slow, single-target, building-targeting, short-ranged, air troop with very high hitpoints and very low damage. When defeated, it bursts into six spread-out Lava Pups which have slightly higher damage but with much lower hitpoints. The Lava Hound appears to be a flying, burning rock beast with an underbite, short wings, small rocky dog ears, team-colored spikes on its back, and small limbs. A Lava Hound card costs 7 Elixir to deploy.

Modifiers
 Common: Super Troops
“+500% hit speed”

Quintuples the base Lava Hound's fire rate.

 Rare: Burn Book Business
“+6 Fire Spirits on defeat”

Spawns in 6 Fire Spirits when Lava Hound splits.

 Epic: Like Bunnies
“Continuous Lava Pups”

Periodically spawns in 2 Lava Pups at the back when in Lava Hound form.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

Since the Lava Hound is a great air tank with high hitpoints, it is best used as a shield for air troops with higher damage and less hitpoints like Minion Horde, Bats, Mega Minion, Phoenix, Electro Dragon, or the Inferno Dragon. It is less effective to use the Lava Hound as a shield for ground troops as the opponent can use troops with ground-only targeting to bypass the Lava Hound.
Sending the Lava Hound alone is futile unless your opponent completely ignores it, as the Lava Hound and Lava Pups without support can be countered easily with no damage taken at all.
The Lava Hound has a lower sight range compared to other troops that only target buildings. Its sight range matches that of most non-building-targeting troops, like the Knight. This means that it can bypass certain building placements, as opposed to a Golem or a Balloon.
The Lava Pups cannot deal much damage without a tank, so a Knight, Miner, Dark Prince, Valkyrie, Prince, Monk, or Hog Rider could tank for it long enough for it to take a Crown Tower. The Lava Hound can also tank for the said units, allowing them to return the favor subsequently by tanking for its Lava Pups.
Defenders should always prepare an area damage card like Arrows, Fireball, Giant Snowball, Poison, Fire Spirit, Executioner, or Wizard against Lava Hound players, as the Lava Pups will deal incredible damage if left uncountered.
If timed correctly, a Zap can hit and stun all its Lava Pups. You need to use Zap on the Lava Hound just as it dies. Arrows are a much better alternative as they have less room for error with its larger area of effect and it kills all the Lava Pups. Arrows can also be used on a low-health Lava Hound, as the Lava Pups can be defeated in 2 of the 3 waves of the spell's waves.
The Inferno Tower is an excellent counter to the Lava Hound, as it deals high damage to the Lava Hound while it does not take much damage from the Lava Hound in return.
Back the Inferno Tower up with a Musketeer or use Arrows to finish off the Lava Pups.
Despite this, the Lava Hound may not be powerless. Send Minions to distract/destroy the Inferno Tower and the Musketeer. This will allow the Lava Hound to continue its job.
Zap may also help with dealing with the Inferno Tower since its stun effect will make it retarget to the Minions, as well as resetting its damage.
Using a second tank on the field (such as a Miner) will allow the Lava Pups do more damage. This is because the Lava Pups spawn only a short while after the Lava Hound has been defeated, meaning that any other troops will be targeted instead. This can easily fixed by using any card that has a stun effect, such as Zap and Freeze. However, it is usually better not to stun the troops since the Lava Pups are the main damage dealers in this situation.
Pairing the Lava Hound with Lightning is a good option since it will cripple an Inferno Tower, Inferno Dragon, and take out glass cannons such as Wizards, Goblinsteins, Little Princes, Ice Wizards, Archer Queens, Musketeers, Electro Dragons, Witches, Hunters, Night Witches, and Mega Minions.
The Tornado and Executioner combo is very effective in destroying the Lava Hound and its support troops. The Tornado brings all the troops to the same spot so the Executioner can hit all of them at once. If the Executioner defeats the Lava Hound, it can also hit the generated Lava Pups at once. The Tornado can also pull things back, giving your Executioner more time to defeat them. The Magic Archer, Wizard, and Firecracker can work in a similar way.
Like the other options, the Hunter is also able to defeat the Lava Hound. He deals great damage to the Lava Hound, while also retaining the ability to hit the Lava Pups right after defeating the Lava Hound. However, he is less reliable against a larger Lava Hound push due to his fairly low health, so try to protect him with a mini tank while he attacks the Lava Hound.
The LavaLoon is a popular strategy where the Lava Hound tanks for a Balloon while it wreaks havoc on Towers.
However, this strategy is easily countered if the troops have no support, as the Balloon can be destroyed before the Lava Hound. For example, the Minion Horde can easily destroy the Balloon before it deals damage to the Tower and proceed to destroy the Lava Hound. So a support unit behind them like a Baby Dragon, Electro Dragon, or Skeleton Dragons is crucial to protect the Balloon from swarm units, although this would make the combo very costly.
It can also be easily defeated by the Wizard. Place the Wizard correctly so that it targets the Balloon. When the Balloon dies, support the Wizard with other troops to finish off the Lava Hound and its Lava Pups. Thus having a Mega Minion supporting them could also come in handy.
Other air-targeting area damage troops like the Executioner can also work if paired with a Tornado. Try to use these combinations when the Balloon has already passed the tile where the Tornado is placed.
The Inferno Tower is also able to counter this combo. After defeating the Lava Hound, it will immediately retarget to the next closest unit, which is often the Balloon. The Inferno Tower also has high enough hitpoints to withstand the Balloon's attacks, buying it enough time to defeat it, while the Lava Pups do not deal enough damage to it in return. However, the Inferno Tower will not stop a Lava Hound + Balloon push by itself if the opponent uses Zap, Electro Spirit, or Ice Spirit.
When they have both combo tools prepped up on their side, it is important to abuse the Lava Hound's long range by playing a distraction such as a Tombstone on the bridge. The Balloon goes in front of the Lava Hound, and the Crown Tower will target the Balloon first, making it easier for troops such as the Mega Minion to plow the Balloon and some more to the Lava Hound.
A high risk, high reward move is to use Clone on the Lava Hound. After the original Lava Hound dies, the Crown Tower will lock onto the cloned Hound for one shot before targeting the original's Lava Pups. This results in twelve Lava Pups dealing massive damage on the map. This is especially effective when the Lava Hound is paired with other swarms like Bats, Minion Horde, Goblin Gang, or Skeleton Army that can be used to bait out a spell like a Zap, Arrows, or Giant Snowball that would be more effective against the Clone spell.
A Lava Hound can be more versatile than a Golem. The Lava Hound costs less Elixir and cannot be targeted by high-damage ground troops like the P.E.K.K.A., Mini P.E.K.K.A., Elite Barbarians, Monk, Sparky, Mighty Miner, Evolved Mega Knight, Lumberjack, Night Witch, Goblin Brawler, or Prince while the Lava Pups have higher damage overall than the Golemites. The Lava Hound also has a one-second deploy time as opposed to the Golem's three-second deploy time. However, one disadvantage in using the Lava Hound is its difficulty to obtain and upgrade because the Lava Hound is a Legendary card. It also cannot be targeted by troops that cannot target air, such as Barbarians, Guards, Skeleton Army, Goblins, or Royal Recruits, which means it cannot distract them. It also has lesser health than the Golem. Its most glaring flaw when compared to the Golem, however, is its extremely low damage output and lack of death damage. Because of this, it should be supported with high-damaging units that can use the Lava Hound as a meat shield such as Baby Dragon, Skeleton Dragons, or Flying Machine.
The Miner is very effective when paired with the Lava Hound. Sending in a Miner after a Tower has locked on to the Lava Hound will allow the Miner to deal a lot of chip damage without being targeted. Alternatively, the Miner can be sent onto grounded anti-air troops like Musketeer, Wizard, and Archer Queen to defeat them. After the Lava Hound dies, the Miner will tank for the fragile Lava Pups, allowing for even more damage to the Tower. However, this can be countered by certain spells or swarms that target air troops for a positive Elixir trade, such as Fireball, Lightning, Archers, Spear Goblins, or Rascals.
In a Draft Challenge or a Triple Draft Challenge, the player is guaranteed to receive a card that can target air troops (2 in the case of Triple Draft). As such, it might not be a good idea to pick the Lava Hound in those challenges.
Statistics
Lava Hound Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Projectile Speed
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

7	1.3 sec	1 sec	Slow (45)	1 sec	3.5	400	Buildings	x1	Air	Troop	Legendary
Lava Pup Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Range
	Projectile Speed
	Target
	Count
	Transport

1.7 sec	1 sec	Medium (60)	Melee: Long (1.6)	500	Air & Ground	x6	Air
Card Statistics













Level
	Lava Hound Hitpoints
	Lava Hound Damage
	Lava Hound Damage per second
	Lava Pup Hitpoints
	Lava Pup Damage
	Lava Pup Damage per second

9	2960	44	33	179	67	39
10	3255	48	36	197	74	43
11	3581	53	40	217	81	47
12	3939	58	44	239	89	52
13	4333	64	49	263	98	57
14	4766	71	54	289	108	63
15	5243	78	60	318	119	70
16	5767	85	65	349	130	76

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Reward
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 130,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	2 Lava Hound cards
100 
2	Deal a total of 385,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	8,000 
100 
3	Deal a total of 650,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
100 
Pincushion
	1	Receive a total of 3,500 hits from enemy Towers	12,000 
150 
2	Receive a total of 10,000 hits from enemy Towers	2 
150 
3	Receive a total of 18,000 hits from enemy Towers	18,000 
150 
History

2016

The Lava Hound card was added to the game on 3/5/2016, in the May 2016 Update.
On 18/5/2016, a Balance Update, increased the Lava Hound's hitpoints by 3% and Lava Pup's hitpoints by 9%.
On 21/6/2016, a Balance Update, increased the Lava Hound's damage by 28%.
On 30/11/2016, a Balance Update, decreased the Lava Pup's hitpoints by 1%. This was to fix a rounding error where a level 12 Crown Tower should've been able to kill equivalent level Lava Pups in two shots.

2017

On 12/6/2017, the June 2017 Update, increased the Lava Hound's collision radius to 0.75 tiles (from 0.5 tiles). This change was not mentioned in any change notes.

2018

On 24/1/2018, a Balance Update, increased the Lava Hounds hitpoints by 5%.
On 5/9/2018, the September 2018 Update, changed it so that Legendary cards start at Level 9 and end at Level 13 (from 1 to 5).

2019

On 26/11/2019, the End of November 2019 Update, added a card render to the Lava Hound's card info screen.

2020

On 7/1/2020, a Balance Update, increased the Lava Hound's range to 3.5 tiles (from 2 tiles). The damage of the Lava Pups was also increased by 70%, but their attack time interval was increased to 1.7 seconds (from 1 second), their first attack time interval was increased to 1 second (from 0.8 seconds), and their range was decreased to 1.6 tiles (from 2 tiles), now classified as Melee: Long. There was also an unannounced change to Lava Hound's pathing, allowing it to bypass some building placements it was not able to bypass before.

2021

On 7/6/2021, the Summer 2021 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Lava Hound from P.E.K.K.A's Playhouse to Hog Mountain.
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).

2022

On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Lava Hound from Hog Mountain to Rascal's Hideout.

2023

On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).
On 3/10/2023, a Balance Update, decreased the Lava Hound's hitpoints by 6%.

2025

On 4/2/2025, a Balance Update, decreased the Lava Pups' damage by 7%.
On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, decreased the Lava Hound's damage by 1.85%. It also increased the Lava Pups' hitpoints by 0.46%, and decreased their damage by 3.57%. The same update also fixed a bug where Lava Pups would not spawn after being buffed by Royal Chef.
Gallery
Current card render.
Lava Hound Preview.gif
Current card preview.
Lava Hound 1
Lava Hound 2
Lava Hound 3
Lava Pup
Lava Hound with his pups.
Trivia
The Lava Hound is based on the basset hound, which has an average litter of 6 to 8 pups and the Lava Hound, when defeated, releases a total of 6 Lava Pups.
The Lava Hound is 1 of 19 troops which first existed in Clash of Clans, the others being Minions, Archers, Goblins, Skeletons, Barbarians, Giant, Valkyrie, Wizard, Hog Rider, Witch, P.E.K.K.A., Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Cannon Cart, Phoenix, and the Archer Queen.
The Lava Hound resembles the Level 1-2 Lava Hound from Clash of Clans.
He functions just like his Clash of Clans counterpart, but when he is upgraded in Clash Royale, the Lava Pups gain a stat increase, while in Clash of Clans the Lava Pups gain a count increase.
Unlike in Clash of Clans, the Lava Hound in Clash Royale does not have death damage and does not prioritize any specific building.
In Clash of Clans, his movement speed is high whereas in Clash Royale, his movement speed is low.
The Lava Hound, along with Mega Knight, is the most expensive permanent Legendary card, costing 7 Elixir.
The Lava Hound is one of the first troop cards to receive a card render, alongside the Archers, Knight, Goblins, Bomber, Skeletons, Barbarians, Bats, Royal Recruits, Skeleton Barrel, Rascals, Musketeer, Giant, Valkyrie, Wizard, Flying Machine, Hog Rider, Royal Hogs, Dart Goblin, Zappies, Elixir Golem, Baby Dragon, Skeleton Army, Witch, P.E.K.K.A, Prince, Balloon, Giant Skeleton, Goblin Giant, Hunter, Electro Dragon, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Cannon Cart, Mega Knight, Ram Rider, Miner, Royal Ghost, Ice Wizard, Magic Archer, Bandit, Night Witch, and Fisherman.
The Lava Pups are 1 of 9 troops that have the same sprite for both players, the others are Skeletons, Electro Spirit, Fire Spirit, Bats, Ice Spirit, Heal Spirit, Elixir Blob, and Phoenix.
The Lava Hound is the first card to have its own Super Troop version.
In the Italian and French language settings of the game, the Lava Hound's name translates to "Lava Mastiff" meanwhile in the Russian language settings of the game, it translates to "Hell Hound"
The Lava Hound bears more than a passing resemblance to Heatran from Pokemon.
The Lava Hound is confirmed to be a male, as the storyteller in The Last Lava Pup commercial referred to Lava Hound as "he" and "father".
While the Lava Hound appears to be made of both molten lava and solid rock, the Lava Pup seems to be a pure lava being. Fans theorize that the lava cools into rocks as the Lava Pups mature.
It appears to have an underbite, similar to the Minions, Guards, Giant Skeleton, and Super Lava Hound.
A large part of the Lava Hound's card description is used as a Loading Screen Hint.
The Lava Hound is 1 of 15 troops which bring an excited reaction from the audience upon spawning and brings a collective groan from the audience when defeated, as well as a concerning gasp when the opponent plays it, the others include Royal Giant, Giant, P.E.K.K.A., Giant Skeleton, Rune Giant, Goblin Giant, Golem, Bowler, Electro Wizard, Inferno Dragon, Sparky, Night Witch, Super Lava Hound, and the Monk.
The Lava Hound, along with the Minions, Bomber, Skeletons, Skeleton Dragons, Ice Spirit, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Mega Minion, Ice Golem, Dart Goblin, Elixir Golem, Goblin Brawler, Guards, Baby Dragon, P.E.K.K.A, Giant Skeleton, Golem, Wall Breakers, Bowler, Executioner, Mega Knight, Inferno Dragon, and Royal Ghost, are featured as a monster in Squad Busters.
The Lava Hound is the subject of 2 Emotes.
A cloned Lava Hound does not fall from the sky when deployed.
The Lava Pups' range was shown as 2 before the 7/1/2020 balance changes.
The Lava Hound was featured in the winning deck of the Clash Royale League 2024 Tournament, by a player called Mohamed Light.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

Comments

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Card Overviews/Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Arenas
2026/8/28
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis