SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 7-Elixir Cards, Epic Cards, Troop Cards, Rascal's Hideout Cards
English
Electro Giant
79
EDIT
Electro Giant
Elixir Cost
7 
Rarity
Epic
Type
Troop
Arena
Rascal's Hideout
Release Date
2 November 2020







Merge

“He channels electricity through his Zap Pack, a unique device that stuns and damages any troop attacking him within its range. Don't tell him that his finger guns aren't real! He'll zap you.”

The Electro Giant is an Epic card that is unlocked from the Rascal's Hideout (Arena 13). It spawns a slow, single-target, building-targeting, melee, ground troop with very high hitpoints and moderate damage. Enemy units who damage the Electro Giant while being within a 3-tile radius of him will be damaged and stunned for 0.5 seconds with each hit. He generally resembles the Giant, but is bare-chested, has spiky eyebrows and a beard, wears gloves with team-colored bolts on top, gold-rimmed goggles, team-colored pants, and a belt with a golden bolt in the center, and carries a generator on his back with two team-colored rings on top called the ‘Zap Pack’, which creates a team-colored electric field around him. An Electro Giant card costs 7 Elixir to deploy.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

The Electro Giant does not inflict any reflected damage if he is frozen. Hence, Freeze can be used along with a swarm card to safely defeat him as it buys 4 valuable seconds.
When a unit attacks the Electro Giant, their attack will take priority over the stun, even though both effects happen simultaneously. Due to this, the Prince and Dark Prince's charge attacks will successfully connect against an Electro Giant.
When playing with an Electro Giant deck, it is important you include spells such as Zap or Lighting. These are important to reset Inferno Dragons or Inferno Towers as they will easily take down Electro Giant. You can also use cards such as Zappies, Electro Wizard, Goblinstein, and Electro Dragon to help counter them.
When against the Electro Giant, your best bet has to be buildings such as Cannon and Tesla, as they cannot be pulled by his usual support troops, save for damaging spells such as Lightning, which the user can use.
The Electro Giant's high cost leaves the user vulnerable to a push in the other lane such as a Hog Rider, Ram Rider, or Battle Ram. If this happens, the user should either have some cheap troops available to defend, or be prepared to trade towers.
He will easily take out a Crown Tower if he is ignored, so he should not be left alone unless both players are racing for each others' Crown Tower (such as in Sudden Death).
The Inferno Dragon and Inferno Tower can easily and quickly defeat the Electro Giant if placed correctly. The Inferno Dragon should be placed as far as possible to the side, in a position that the Electro Giant will not walk towards (i.e, not between him and a defensive building). The Inferno Tower can be placed as it usually is against building-targeting units; 4 tiles from the river, and 3 tiles from the defending Crown Tower. These workarounds are not infallible, however.
The user's opponent can deploy a Giant Snowball, Tornado, or a Fireball to force the Inferno Dragon and other units inside the stunning radius, and they can Zap or distract the Inferno Tower with swarms or ranged tanks to give their Electro Giant more time to reach it and stun it.
Like the Golem, he should rarely be played in single Elixir time due to the high 7 Elixir one must commit to use him. Placing him in the back without a sufficient lead or without being able to circumvent the opponent's counters will often give the opponent momentum, through a powerful opposite lane push or a positive Elixir trade on their defense. However, unlike the Golem who cannot defend himself, his reflected damage will hit troops attacking him within a close-set range and potentially destroy them before they can defeat him.
The Electro Giant can be pushed by dashing units like the Prince or Dark Prince so that he can travel faster.
The Electro Giant synergizes well with Tornado. This is handy for ranged troops that stay outside his "zap" area that can be pulled in to stun the troops.
The Electro Giant can be used as a defense-turned-counterattack, as he cripples some offensive cards such as a Mighty Miner, Inferno Dragon, or a Ram Rider.
The Fisherman has synergy with the Electro Giant, as he will pull ranged troops to the Electro Giant's zap radius. He can also defend the Electro Giant from heavy hitters such as P.E.K.K.A, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Night Witch, Hunter, Prince, Royal Ghost, and Sparky by pulling them away towards himself, allowing the Electro Giant to escape their sight range. However, the player will have less Elixir to defend the heavy hitter afterwards, and the Fisherman cannot target air troops, although Electro Giant's zaps will do.
The Barbarian Hut is an effective counter to the Electro Giant when placed in the middle. It will distract the Electro Giant and pull him in range of both Crown Towers, while the Barbarians deal high damage to the Electro Giant for a neutral Elixir trade, with some Barbarians possibly surviving for a counterattack.
If the opponent makes their own high-cost investment early on, the Electro Giant can be deployed to pressure their other lane, as he threatens to take out an entire Crown Tower if he is ignored. Furthermore, making high-cost investments will restrict them to deploying swarms only, which is ineffective against him.
If the opponent carries Tornado to pull units into the Electro Giant's stun radius, the player can deploy their counter units farther back and close to their King's Tower, making it more difficult for the opponent to safely reel them in. If the opponent makes a misstep, they may activate the player's King's Tower.
The Electro Giant's reflected damage is static and is dependent on the enemy's attack speed. Troops that attack slowly with high damage such as the Giant Skeleton, P.E.K.K.A, Mini P.E.K.K.A, Royal Ghost, Sparky, Elite Barbarians, Prince, Mega Minion, Night Witch, or Hunter can handle him alone easily for a positive Elixir trade, while rapid-hitting troops like Lumberjack, Golden Knight, Monk, Phoenix, or Berserker will suffer much more, since they will be damaged down more quickly and be stunned more often, reducing their DPS. Casting Rage on troops defending against the Electro Giant is not recommended because of this.
The reflected damage is also counted per hit. Because of this, the Electro Wizard and the Executioner will hit the Electro Giant twice, effectively hitting themselves twice. Since their range is longer than the Electro Giant's area, they should be placed as far away as possible to avoid them taking damage. The Hunter is an exception to this, as even with him hitting 10 times per attack, he will still only take the reflexion of 1 hit.
If the player has no other cards to effectively counter him, the Skeleton Army or Minion Horde will deal some limited damage to him. Keep in mind that they will likely all die, but the Electro Giant will be weakened.
Sparky can also counter Electro Giant to a certain extent. Amazingly, even if the Sparky is in the zap radius, her attack would still charge up and not be reset by the reflect damage. This makes it rather reliable against spells that the opponent might use. However, try to place the Sparky further away, outside the zap radius so that she would take minimal damage and set up for a counterattack. It usually only takes 2-4 blasts for the Sparky to finish off the Electro Giant, however, the Tower would still take some damage, so this counter isn't the most effective.
Unlike other building-targeting tanks, the Electro Giant should not be used with the Witch and Night Witch. This is because the Zap Pack will force the Tower to retarget from the Electro Giant into the Skeletons and Bats, weakening the push. Similarly, he is ineffective with offensive cards that are directly placed on the Tower, such as the Goblin Drill, Graveyard, Miner, and Goblin Barrel.
Mirror can also be used on the Electro Giant. Deploy an Electro Giant at the back of your King's Tower and wait for more Elixir. Then deploy the mirrored Electro Giant at the back. The opponent will likely spend a lot of Elixir defending this push.
Avoid using Arrows, Fireball, Rocket, Barbarian Barrel, The Log, or Giant Snowball against the Electro Giant if he is attacking the King Tower. This will cause the King Tower to get stunned unnecessarily, making him take longer to defeat the Electro Giant. However, in 2v2 mode you can combine a Tornado with one of these spells to activate your King Tower from the reflect damage, without it taking any damage. This is because damage dealt by any direct damage spell originates from the King Tower and technically counts as an attack by it.
Statistics
Electro Giant Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

7	1.8 sec	1 sec	Slow (45)	1 sec	Melee: Medium (1.2)	Buildings	x1	Ground	Troop	Epic
Zap Pack Attributes
Radius
	Stun Duration
	Target

3	0.5 sec	Air & Ground
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage per Second
	Reflected Damage
	Reflected Tower Damage

6	2454	101	48	119	60
7	2699	111	52	131	66
8	2969	122	58	144	73
9	3266	135	64	159	80
10	3593	148	70	175	88
11	3952	163	77	192	97
12	4347	179	85	211	107
13	4782	197	93	232	117
14	5260	217	103	256	129
15	5786	239	113	281	142
16	6365	263	125	309	156

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Reward
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 280,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	20 Electro Giant cards
75 
2	Deal a total of 840,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	6,000 
75 
3	Deal a total of 1,400,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
75 
Tower Tapper
	1	Hit enemy Crown Towers a total of 980 times	9,000 
125 
2	Hit enemy Crown Towers a total of 2,800 times	20 
125 
3	Hit enemy Crown Towers a total of 4,900 times	15,000 
125 
History

2020

The Electro Giant was once available in the Electro Giant Draft Challenge, which started on 5/10/2020. In this challenge, gameplay was similar to a regular Draft Challenge, except that one of the players was able to choose who would use the Electro Giant. If the player achieved at least 6 wins, they obtained the Electro Giant early.
On 14/10/2020, prior to the card's general release, a maintenance break, increased the Electro Giant's hitpoints by 12.5%.
The Electro Giant card was generally released on 2/11/2020.
On 18/11/2020, the Clan Wars Improvement Update, made the Electro Giant's reflected damage scale with his level. Additionally, certain interactions with the reflected damage were changed. For example, each of the Hunter's pellets no longer count as individual attacks versus the Electro Giant. Previously, if the Hunter hit the Electro Giant from a point-blank range, the Hunter would take reflected damage 10 times and die instantly.
On 19/11/2020, a maintenance break, fixed a bug where using Lightning on an Electro Giant would cause the game to crash.

2021

On 30/3/2021, the 2021 Quarter 1 Update, added the Electro Giant to all Draft selections.
On 6/9/2021, the 2021 Quarter 3 Update, decreased the Electro Giant's hitpoints by 4%.
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).
On 1/11/2021, an Optional Update, fixed an issue where Electro Giant could not stun some enemies.
On 15/11/2021, a Minor Update, fixed an issue where the Electro Giant counter-zaps would causes incorrect damage to enemy units.

2022

On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update, fixed a few bugs on the Electro Giant such as with his zap damage behaving inconsistently, a rare crash when Electro Giant received certain types of damage, and an issue where the Electro Giant's Star Level used the sound effects of the Giant.
On 4/4/2022, the April 2022 Update, decreased the Electro Giant cost to 7 Elixir (from 8 Elixir), but also decreased his hitpoints and damage by 15%.
On 7/6/2022, a Balance Update, increased the Electro Giant's hitpoints by 9%.
On 2/8/2022, a Balance Update, decreased the Electro Giant's reflected tower damage by 33%.
On 26/10/2022, the 2022 Quarter 3 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Electro Giant from Electro Valley to Rascal's Hideout.

2023

On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).

2024

On 16/12/2024, the 2024 Quarter 4 Update, fixed a bug where Electro Giant's Zap Pack would not deal reduced damage to the King Tower.

2025

On 8/1/2025, a Balance Update, added a 2-tile sight clip to the Electro Giant.
On 31/3/2024, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, decreased the Electro Giant's hitpoints by 0.02% and increased his reflected tower damage by 37.5%. It also fixed a bug where Electro Giant would not always be knocked back when hit by Evolved Mega Knight.
On 1/4/2025, a maintenance break, decreased the Electro Giant's reflected tower damage by 33%.

2026

On 4/5/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Electro Giant's attack time interval to 1.8 seconds (from 2.1 seconds) and his first attack time interval to 1 second (from 1.5 seconds), but also decreased his reflected tower damage by 24%.
On 6/7/2026, a Balance Update, increased the Electro Giant's hitpoints by 3%.
Gallery
Current card render.
Electro Giant Preview.gif
Current card preview
Electro Giant 1
Electro Giant 2
Electro Giant 3
Electro Giant 4
Electro Giant 5
Trivia
The word "Electro" comes from the Greek word "ἤλεκτρον" (elektron), meaning amber, referring to its electrostatic capabilities. Electricity was first detected through electric fish from as far back as 2750 BCE where Ancient Egyptian texts described them as the "protectors" of all other fish. At around 600 BCE, Thales of Miletus made a series of observations on static electricity, from which he believed that friction rendered amber magnetic, in contrast to minerals such as magnetite, which needed no rubbing. Thales was incorrect in believing the attraction was due to a magnetic effect, but later science would prove a link between magnetism and electricity. Electricity would remain little more than an intellectual curiosity for millennia until 1600, when the English scientist William Gilbert wrote De Magnete, in which he made a careful study of electricity and magnetism, distinguishing the lodestone effect from static electricity produced by rubbing amber.
In the Spanish, Italian, Russian, Arabic, Portuguese, and Thai language settings of the game, the Electro Giant's name translates to "Electric Giant". In the Chinese and Finnish language settings of the game, the Electro Giant's name translates to "Thunder Giant" and "Lightning Giant" respectively.
The Electro Giant is 1 of 11 cards associated with electricity, with the others being Electro Spirit, Zap, Tesla, Zappies, Electro Dragon, Lightning, Electro Wizard, Sparky, Wizard Trio, and the Goblinstein.
The Electro Giant is tied with Super Magic Archer for the lowest first attack speed of all troops, with a first attack speed of 1.5 seconds.
The Electro Giant is 1 of 2 troops to deal reduced damage to Crown Towers, the others being Miner. In the case of the Electro Giant, his reflecting damage deals 66% of the full damage.
The Electro Giant is 1 of 14 troops that has been featured with a Rage buff, the others being Electro Spirit, Giant, Zappies, Guards, Giant Skeleton, Goblin Giant, Electro Dragon, Wall Breakers, Mega Knight, Ram Rider, Electro Wizard, Sparky, and Royal Ghost.
The Electro Giant is 1 of 23 cards that has had its Elixir cost changed, the others being Bomber, Fire Spirit, Royal Recruits, Cannon, Mortar, Musketeer, Three Musketeers, Heal, Goblin Hut, Bomb Tower, Barbarian Hut, Furnace, Elixir Collector, Skeleton Army, P.E.K.K.A., Wall Breakers, Bowler, Goblin Barrel, Barbarian Barrel, Rage, Fisherman, and the Monk.
The Electro Giant may have inspired the Electro Titan, a troop from Clash of Clans.
His hit sounds are reused from Giant albeit with altered pitch.
The Electro Giant is the 100th card to be added in the game.
The Electro Giant is the subject of a few Emotes.
Before the Electro Giant's release, the card description was changed. It used to read, “A hulking hunk of man and metal. Zaps nearby enemies when attacked.”
There is currently a visual bug where using an Evolved Giant Snowball on the Electro Giant will cause its electric aura to flash repeatedly.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

79 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Card Overviews/Merge Tactics
2026/8/30
Arenas
2026/8/28
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE