We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 5-Elixir Cards, 2-Cycles Evolutions, Rare Cards, and 3 more
English
Evolved Royal Hogs
< Royal Hogs
3
SAVE
EDIT
	This article is a stub. You can help the Clash Royale Wiki by expanding it.	




Evolved Royal Hogs
Elixir Cost
5 
Cycle Cost
2 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Troop
Arena
Royal Arena
Release Date
3 November 2025




“These guys are hogging the spotlight! Evolved Royal Hogs take flight towards the nearest building and will fall to the ground once they reach their destination or, if attacked, doing damage on landing.”

The Royal Hogs' Evolution is a Rare card that is unlocked with 6 Evolution Shards. It spawns four Royal Hogs with stats identical to their originals. They deploy as flying troops rather than on the ground, unable to be attacked by ground-targeting troops. Upon attacking, or getting hurt, the hogs will fall to the ground, dealing low area damage on impact. They appear to be smaller versions of the Hog Rider's hog wearing team-colored knight-like helmets with the Card Evolution symbol on top and have wings. The Royal Hogs' Evolution costs 5 Elixir and requires 2 cycles to deploy.

Strategy
Play them with a high health tank so that the tank will take most of the damage, while the Royal Hogs fly towards the tower.
Try to have a small spell ready for swarms such as Skeleton Army, Goblin Gang, Minion Horde, etc.
Good to pair with the Wizard or Ice Wizard, as they have large spread, moderate damage per second, the Ice Wizard has slowing effect, and they both have reasonably high health. Try to bait one of your opponent's spells first, as if the Hogs get hit by a spell, they will fall and be targeted by ground troops again. Do the same for building, as these cancel out the flying before they reach the Princess Tower as well.
Watch out for opponents' splash troops, such as Firecracker, Wizard, Bomber, Bowler, Executioner, etc, as these can easily wipe out the hogs. Pair them with another fast, high dps troop, such as Prince, Dark Prince, Mini P.E.K.K.A., and Lumberjack.
Statistics
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

5	1.2 sec	0.4 sec	Very Fast (120)	1 sec	Melee: Short (0.7)	Buildings	x4	Ground	Troop	Rare
Evolution Attributes
Cycles

2










Level
	Hitpoints
	Damage
	Damage Per Second
	Landing Damage

3	390	35	29	54
4	430	38	31	59
5	472	42	35	65
6	520	46	38	71
7	572	51	42	79
8	629	56	46	86
9	692	61	50	95
10	761	67	55	105
11	837	74	61	115
12	921	81	67	127
13	1013	90	75	139
14	1114	98	81	153
15	1225	108	90	168
16	1348	119	99	185

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

On 3/11/2025, the Evolved Royal Hogs were added into the game
On 24/11/2025, the 2025 Q4 Update, the Evolved Royal Hogs have a new deploy sound effect

2026

On 2/3/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Royal Hogs' Landing Damage by 27%.
On 4/5/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Evolved Royal Hogs' Landing Damage by 49%.
Gallery
Current card render.
Evo Shard
Evolved Royal Hog
Trivia
Archaeological evidence suggests that pigs were domesticated from the wild boar in the Near East in the Tigris Basin, being managed in the wild in a way similar to the way they are managed by some modern New Guineans. Remains of pigs have been dated to earlier than 11,400 years ago in Cyprus. Those animals must have been introduced from the mainland, which suggests domestication in the adjacent mainland by then. Pigs were separately domesticated in China beginning 8,000 years ago, and have been one of the most important domesticated animals there ever since.
In the French, German, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Turkish, Arabic, Portuguese, Persian, Indonesian, and Malaysian language settings of the game, the Royal Hogs' name translates to "Royal Pigs". In the Norwegian, Russian, and Chinese language settings of the game, the Royal Hogs' name translates to "Royal Boars". In the Thai and Finnish language settings of the game, the Royal Hogs' name translates to "Royal Wild Boars" and "King's Boars" respectively.
The Royal Hogs are the most expensive 2-Cycles Evolution, costing 5 Elixir. They are also the most expensive Evolution to be placed, with a cost of 15 Elixir (excluding Elixir from playing other cards).
Evolved Royal Hogs' ability to fly is a reference to the phrase “When pigs fly”, which means something (almost) never happening.
How Evolved Royal Hogs leave a rainbow trail when flying is a reference to the popular internet meme "Nyan Cat", which also leave a rainbow trail when flying.
Interestingly, the emote also made the reference as well.
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

3 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis