We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 3-Elixir Cards, 2-Cycles Evolutions, Epic Cards, and 2 more
English
Evolved Skeleton Army
< Skeleton Army
3
SAVE
EDIT
Evolved Skeleton Army
Elixir Cost
3 
Cycle Cost
2 
Rarity
Epic
Type
Troop
Arena
P.E.K.K.A.'s Playhouse
Release Date
October 6 2025
“Look alive! General Gerry's Skeletons are devoted to him, becoming invisible and indestructible in his presence. But alas, an army cannot survive without its General and will perish in his absence.”

The Skeleton Army's Evolution is an Epic Card that is unlocked with 6 Evolution Shards. It spawns 15 Skeletons in a scatter formation, with General Gerry at the back. When the Skeletons are defeated, their shadows will spawn. The shadows have unlimited hitpoints, and can't be targeted by troops, buildings and tower troops, but can be affected by spells. When General Gerry is defeated, all the shadows are defeated as well. Gerry appears as a Guard with purple eyes, wears a helmet with a golden handle and a team-colored crest on top and a purple cape with gold linings, and carries a spear with an attached purple banner that has a skull printed on it and a wooden shield with the Card Evolution symbol on it. The Skeleton Army's Evolution costs 3 Elixir and requires 2 cycles to deploy.

Strategy
In order to fully destroy the Evolved Skeleton Army, General Gerry must be defeated first, otherwise they will stay alive and eliminate anything that is attacking them.
Destroying General Gerry will only instantly defeat the shadows and not affect any Skeletons that are still alive. However, any alive Skeletons will be prevented from being converted into shadows after death.
General Gerry is stronger than a normal Skeleton. He is able to attack slightly faster and from a longer range compared to a regular Skeleton. Keep this in mind when using him on defense against building-targeting troops.
Like Guards, General Gerry has a shield which makes certain spells ineffective against him, however, some spells are still great against him.
For a neutral Elixir trade, Arrows will destroy General Gerry's shield and the second wave will defeat him outright. Its large radius also allows it to hit most, if not all of the Evolved Skeleton Army, allowing allied units to break through without being distracted.
Although slower than Arrows, Poison, Earthquake, and Vines can defeat General Gerry similarly. However, the former is a negative Elixir trade.
Despite being a positive Elixir trade, the Goblin Curse is not able to defeat the General Gerry or his shield in one hit. It requires 3 hits for either, which means that all 6 of its hits must hit him in order to defeat General Gerry. Its smaller radius also means that it may not hit all of the Evolved Skeleton Army and the shadows cannot be cursed, so keep this in mind when using the spell against it.
A Stage 3 Void is unable to destroy General Gerry, as it does not deal enough damage to destroy the shield in one hit. However, it is able to defeat him at Stage 1 or 2, meaning that he should be isolated first before the Void is used on him.
If timed right, a Barbarian Barrel will instantly destroy the shield, and a swing of the Barbarian will finish off the unshielded General Gerry. Make sure that the shadows do not walk back to him, otherwise the Barbarian will be overwhelmed and defeated quickly.
Unlike Zap, the Evolved Zap attacks twice, which means that its two pulses will defeat General Gerry and the remaining Evolved Skeleton Army. Since both cards have the same cycle cost, make sure that you save it for when the opponent is evolving their Skeleton Army.
Statistics
Evolved Skeleton Army Attributes
Cost
	Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

3	1.1 sec	0.5 sec	Fast (90)	1 sec	Melee: Short (0.5)	Ground	x15	Ground	Troop	Epic
Evolution Attributes
Cycles

2
General Gerry Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Transport
	Type

1 sec	0.5 sec	Fast (90)	1 sec	Melee: Long (1.6)	Ground	Ground	Troop
Shadow Skeleton Attributes
Hit Speed
	First Hit Speed
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Target
	Count
	Transport
	Type

1.1 sec	0.5 sec	Medium (60)	1 sec	Melee: Short (0.5)	Ground	x15	Ground	Troop













Level
	Skeleton Hitpoints
	Skeleton Damage
	Skeleton Damage per second
	General Gerry Hitpoints
	General Gerry Shield Hitpoints
	Skeleton Damage
	Skeleton Damage per second

6	50	50	45	50	50	50	50
7	55	55	49	55	55	55	55
8	61	61	55	61	61	61	61
9	67	67	60	67	67	67	67
10	74	74	67	74	74	74	74
11	81	81	73	81	81	81	81
12	89	89	80	89	89	89	89
13	98	98	89	98	98	98	98
14	108	108	98	108	108	108	108
15	119	119	108	119	119	119	119
16	130	130	118	130	130	130	130

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

History

2025

The Skeleton Army's Evolution card was added to the game on 6/10/2025, in the October 2025 Update.

2026

On 12/01/2026, a Balance Update decreased the Shadow Skeletons' speed to 60 (from 90), classifying them as Medium. It also changed the Evolved Skeleton Army's spawn formation by spawning the General closer to the Shadow Skeletons.
Gallery
Current card render.
Evolution Shard.
Evolved Skeleton Army.
Trivia
The Evolved Skeleton Army may be based on the Immortals, a legion in the Achaemenid Persian Army where their numbers would not decrease with its defeat, due to the casualties being replaced. It could also be inspired by the Dead Man of Dunharrow from The Lord Of The Rings, a ghost skeleton army that could attack but not be hit themselves, with the general representing the King of the Dead.
The Skeleton Army Evolution summons 15 Skeletons alongside General Gerry (16 skeletons in total), but as revealed in the 1/10/2018 balance changes, one of the Skeletons in the regular Skeleton Army card is already named Gerry, which means that either another Skeleton called Gerry joined the army and became the general or the existing Gerry was promoted and an extra unnamed Skeleton replaced him.
Before the Skeleton Army's Evolution's release, the Skeletons' attack time interval was increased to 1.1 seconds (from 1 second).
It is possible to trap General Gerry in the back behind the player's King Tower via Hero Musketeer or Hero Bowler's ability. This allows the shadows to advance without almost any risk of them being killed due to Gerry being pretty much unreachable. The only way to kill General Gerry is to use spells against him (which will lead to the player's King Tower being activated) or to wait until the ability's effect expires in order to use spells safely (but by that point too much damage will have been done by the shadows).
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

3 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
5 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis