We want to hear from you! Take our quick survey and help shape your personalized fan experience.

SHARE YOUR THOUGHTS
SIGN IN
CREATE A FREE ACCOUNT
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
SIGN IN
Home
Explore
Saved
Progress
History
Utilities
More
ADVERTISEMENT
SKIP TO CONTENT
Clash Royale Wiki
1,998
PAGES
EXPLORE
CARDS
BATTLE
GAMEPLAY
MERGE TACTICS
in: 1-Elixir Cards, Rare Cards, Troop Cards, and 2 more
English
Heal Spirit
51
SAVE
EDIT
Heal Spirit
Elixir Cost
1 
Rarity
Rare
Type
Troop
Arena
Rascal's Hideout
Release Date
2 April 2020




“A mischevious Spirit that leaps at enemies, dealing Damage and leaving behind a powerful healing effect that restores Hitpoints to friendly Troops!”

The Heal Spirit is a Rare card that is unlocked from the Rascal's Hideout (Arena 13). It spawns a very fast, area-damage, air-targeting, short-ranged, ground troop with low hitpoints and low damage. It launches itself at its target when attacking, destroying itself on impact. It creates a small glowing restoration field that heals allied troops nearby. Its physical appearance is similar to an Ice Spirit, but it is lemon in color and is shaped more closely to a rectangle. It also has a red tongue which appears to be sticking out and a single yellow tooth. A Heal Spirit card costs 1 Elixir to deploy.

Strategy

For Battle Decks with this card, click here.

The Heal Spirit is best played behind the troop the player wants to heal to guarantee that the troop is inside of the healing radius after the Heal Spirit attacks. Even if the troop is already damaged, placing the Heal Spirit in front of any troop that doesn't move at a fast speed will likely still cause the troop to be out of the Heal Spirit's heal radius when the Heal Spirit attacks, wasting most of its value.
In certain situation, it might be worth it to use it as a tank for a small push. A Heal Spirit has sufficient hitpoints to reach an opposing Tower Princess or Royal Chef. This means that all Goblin cards, all Minion cards, Wall Breakers, Bats, and Guards can reach the Crown Tower unscathed while the Heal Spirit tanks the Crown Tower. This will not work if the Heal Spirit is at a lower Level or the opponent is using the Cannoneer or Dagger Duchess.
The Heal Spirit has enough hitpoints to take a shot from most medium-sized units. The Musketeer, Executioner, Baby Dragon, Witch, Magic Archer, Archer Queen, Princess, Flying Machine, Fisherman, Cannon Cart, Goblin Demolisher, Ice Wizard, Electro Dragon, Firecracker, Bomber, Dart Goblin, all take more than 1 hit to eliminate the Heal Spirit, giving it ample time to jump on them.
Against the Mother Witch, you want to place it as close to her as possible, so that it is killed as part of its attack instead of being killed by the Mother Witch, otherwise she will spawn a Cursed Hog from it.
The Heal Spirit's healing radius will spawn around the enemy troop that it jumps on. To get the maximum amount of value healing troops on defense, the player should place the Heal Spirit in a way that will bring the enemy troop closer to their own defenders, so that more of their troops end up being healed. Alternatively, the player can use Tornado to bring enemy troops very close to friendly ones, increasing the likelihood that the healing radius will take effect.
The Heal Spirit can tack on a small amount of damage for a cheap cost, allowing other cards to more easily take out other troops. For example, a Heal Spirit in combination with a Fireball will fully take out units like the Musketeer, Electro Wizard, or Wizard. Similarly, a Heal Spirit combined with a Zap, Rage, or Giant Snowball will be able to fully take out Goblins, Minions, or Rascal Girls.
It is much harder to heal long-ranged troops, such as the Musketeer, Flying Machine, and the Magic Archer, as the healing radius is quite small. Even when versed against melee troops that will approach the ranged troop, it may not be worth letting them close in as most long-ranged troops have somewhat low hitpoints, potentially leaving them with less health after the healing than if they were to simply be protected.
A good counterplay against a Heal Spirit is to separate it from the push that it is supporting. This can be done easily by placing a cheap card like Skeletons, Bats, Goblins, Spear Goblins, Ice Golem, or another Spirit card to the side. This works in situations where the Heal Spirit is supporting troops that have a different targeting than the Heal Spirit, such as that of an Elixir Golem.
Conversely, the Heal Spirit can be used to lure another Spirit card to attack it. It is able to survive the attacks of any of the other Spirits for a neutral Elixir trade and save itself for additional defense.
The Log and the Barbarian Barrel are good counters to the Heal Spirit, especially since the Heal Spirit will often be played in tandem with other cards, which allows the defender to get splash value on them. They are still good counters to Heal Spirits that are played at or near the bridge alone, as The Log can chip the Crown Tower, while the Barbarian Barrel can force out another card from the opponent to prevent chip damage. However, the player may want to do this to bait the opponent's spell, which can allow them to more effectively use other cards, such as a Goblin Barrel.
Note that with the Barbarian Barrel, it is important that the barrel itself defeats the Heal Spirit before the Barbarian spawns, otherwise it may result in the Heal Spirit jumping onto the Barbarian, possibly healing the troops that the Heal Spirit was used alongside. The same principle applies to using the Royal Delivery against it.
The Heal Spirit pairs well with any kind of swarm that is subject to a certain spell but can survive said spell with just a sliver of health. They are typically left alone for the Tower Princess to clean up, but a Heal Spirit following behind them forces them to spend more Elixir on defense, or else their lone Tower will be overwhelmed by the sudden health rejuvenation. However, this will not work against the Dagger Duchess, as the Heal Spirit will not jump in time to save the crippled swarms from her daggers.
The Royal Hogs can have most of their damage prevented by a Fireball, but the healing of the Heal Spirit is enough to allow them to gain more damage on the Tower Princess.
The Minion Horde output high damage, but can be easily dealt with Zap, Rage, or Giant Snowball. The Heal Spirit is able to fully reverse the damage of those spells, allowing the Minion Horde to devastate the Tower Princess.
Similarly, both Arrows and Royal Delivery are a decent check to Barbarians, preventing most of their damage. Much like the Minion Horde, they can destroy the Tower Princess if they get healed by the Heal Spirit. A similar principle applies to unshielded Royal Recruits.
The Heal Spirit works very well with Elite Barbarians. The Elite Barbarians are bulky enough to survive most attacks and come as a swarm, meaning that the Heal Spirit is gaining more value from its healing. The Heal Spirit is also able to OHKO any Skeleton card, which are common counters used against Elite Barbarians.
Heal Spirit also synergizes well in Sparky and Balloon decks. The sudden health boost of a few hundred hitpoints can allow these cards to get a single deadly connection that would be otherwise difficult to land on a Crown Tower.
The Heal Spirit pairs well with the Royal Giant. It is reliable against swarms, and its healing can help the Royal Giant generate damage to the Crown Tower. Because of the Royal Giant being close to the bridge, there are also less placements for the opponent to effectively block without it positively affecting the Royal Giant in some way.
It is also quite helpful in Electro Giant and Elixir Golem pushes. The troops that are commonly used in those pushes would benefit significantly from the extra healing but the tanks themselves would also benefit, with the Electro Giant having more opportunities to deal damage with the Zap Pack to any defender, and the Elixir Golem having the drawback of giving Elixir to the opponent delayed by surviving for a bit longer. It can also be helpful in Giant, Goblin Giant, Rune Giant, Lava Hound, and Golem pushes in a similar way, although with not as much of benefit for the tank, as its healing would be pretty negligible.
The Heal Spirit has enough hitpoints to stop a pair of Archers when they are split with the help of the Tower Princess for a +2 Elixir trade. It may not be able to jump on either on them, but it will be able to distract them long enough for the Tower Princess to finish them off. However, unlike the Ice Spirit, it is not able to prevent all damage if the Archers are not split, as the lack of a stun will still allow the second Archer to engage the Tower Princess and get one hit.
If the player can suspect the opponent using a Poison alongside their main attacker, the player can deploy the Heal Spirit to counteract the damage from Poison, either saving the troops from being defeated by the spell or simply delaying their death, allowing them to defend for slightly longer.
A Skeleton Barrel heading toward a Crown Tower can be fully countered by dropping an Heal Spirit behind the Tower when the barrel's shadow is one tile away from the Tower. The Heal Spirit should spawn right as the barrel pops, and finish deploying right as all the Skeletons spawn, and proceed to jump onto all of them. This will prevent all damage from the Skeleton Barrel, excluding its Death Damage.
The Heal Spirit does not deal enough damage to take out the Guards' shields but it does deal enough damage to finish off the Guards themselves. Knowing this, you can combine the Heal Spirit with The Log or Barbarian Barrel to counter Guards for a neutral Elixir trade, however that requires precise timing.
If a Royal Ghost is coming from one lane, the Heal Spirit should be used to kite him towards the other lane. This is most useful when the Royal Ghost is supporting a larger push to separate him from it.
When choosing to use the Heal Spirit over the other Spirit cards in a deck, it is important to note that it is slightly less effective at defending, due to its lack of status effect or its lower damage. Because of this, most of its value comes from its healing capabilities. As such, it should not be used in X-Bow or Mortar decks, as the healing has no effect on buildings.
The Heal Spirit is not a replacement for the Skeletons as a 1-Elixir card in a deck, as their playstyles are very different. The Heal Spirit is immediately sacrificed when it attacks, making it less valuable in decks where creating large pushes is the way to attack, while the Skeletons are able to survive and keep defending thanks to other tanks absorbing hits for them.
If the player is more interested in cheap persistent splash damage, they can use the Bomber instead for such a role. He can attack multiple times for just 1 extra Elixir, while also surviving more attacks thanks to his higher hitpoints. However, in decks where the healing or the cheap cost of the card matter more, the Heal Spirit is the clear option.
Statistics
Heal Spirit Attributes
Cost
	Speed
	Deploy Time
	Range
	Splash Radius
	Target
	Transport
	Type
	Rarity

1	Very Fast (120)	1 sec	2.5	1.5	Air & Ground	Ground	Troop	Rare
Healing Attributes
Heal Speed
	Time Between Pulses
	Radius
	Target

4 pulses every 1 second	0.25 sec	2.5	Air & Ground
Card Statistics










Level
	Hitpoints
	Area Damage
	Healing Per Pulse
	Healing Per Second

3	100	51	47	188
4	110	56	51	204
5	121	62	57	228
6	133	68	62	248
7	147	75	68	272
8	162	83	75	300
9	178	91	83	332
10	195	100	91	364
11	215	110	100.25	401
12	237	121	110	440
13	260	133	121	484
14	286	146	133	532
15	315	161	147	588
16	346	177	161	644

There will be rounding mistakes, as we have stats from level 11

Card Mastery
Type	Level/Tier	Objective	Rewards
Damage Dealer
	1	Deal a total of 10,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 Heal Spirit cards
50 
2	Deal a total of 30,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	4,000 
50 
3	Deal a total of 50,000 Damage to enemy Troops or buildings	100 
50 
Medic
	1	Heal a total of 640 Troops	6,000 
125 
2	Heal a total of 1,800 Troops	100 
125 
3	Heal a total of 3,150 Troops	9,000 
125 
History

2020

The Heal Spirit card was added to the game on 2/4/2020, in a maintenance break, replacing the Heal.
On 31/8/2020, the Clan Wars II Update, added the Damage, Healing, Range and Targets statistics on the Heal Spirit's card info screen. It also made it so that cloned troops can no longer be healed by the Heal Spirit.
On 9/9/2020, a Balance Update, decreased the Heal Spirit's healing radius to 3.5 tiles (from 4 tiles).
On 6/10/2020, a Balance Update, decreased the Heal Spirit's healing effect by 9%.
On 9/12/2020, a Balance Update, decreased the Heal Spirit's damage by 69%.

2021

On 30/3/2021, the 2021 Quarter 1 Update, increased the Heal Spirit's damage by 225%, but decreased its healing radius to 2.5 tiles (from 3.5 tiles).
On 7/6/2021, the Summer 2021 Update, moved the Arena to unlock the Heal Spirit from Hog Mountain to Rascal's Hideout and fixed an issue where the Heal Spirit was considered a spell card in its info menu.
On 27/10/2021, the Champions Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 14 (from 13).

2022

On 30/3/2022, the Miner Update, fixed an issue where the Heal Spirit's Star Level used the sound effects of the Ice Spirit.
On 12/12/2022, the Clashmas Update, made it so that the Heal Spirit's projectile can no longer be deflected.

2023

On 19/6/2023, the Card Evolution Update, increased the Level cap of all cards to 15 (from 14).

2025

On 31/3/2025, the 2025 Quarter 1 Update, decreased the Heal Spirit's hitpoints by 0.43%, and increased its healing by 0.25%.

2026

On 4/8/2026, a Balance Update, decreased the Heal Spirit's hitpoints by 6%
Gallery
Heal Spirit's card render before its release.
Current card render.
Current card preview
Heal Spirit 1
Heal Spirit 2
Trivia
The Heal Spirit, along with Skeletons, Electro Spirit, Fire Spirit, Ice Spirit, Warmth, and Heal, are the cheapest cards, costing 1 Elixir. Also, along with Heal, the Heal Spirit is the cheapest Rare card.
The Heal Spirit is 1 of 8 troops to die as a part of their attack, the others being the Electro Spirit, Fire Spirit, Ice Spirit, Skeleton Barrel, Battle Ram, Suspicious Bush, and Wall Breakers.
The Heal Spirit is 1 of 9 troops that have the same sprite for both players, the others are Skeletons, Electro Spirit, Fire Spirit, Bats, Ice Spirit, Elixir Blob, Phoenix, and Lava Pup.
In the French, Portuguese and Malaysian language settings of the game, the Heal Spirit's name translates to "Spirit of Healing". In the German, Spanish, Dutch, Korean, Russian, Arabic, Portuguese, Finnish and Vietnamese language settings of the game, the Heal Spirit's name translates to "Healing Spirit". In the Italian, Norwegian, Turkish, Chinese, and Persian language settings of the game, the Heal Spirit's name translates to "Spirit of Treatment", "Spirit of Sanitation", "Restoration Spirit", "Healer", and "Healing Soul" respectively.
The Heal Spirit is 1 of 23 troops that has been featured in the Troop Rush game mode, the others being Skeletons, Skeleton Dragons, Fire Spirit, Bats, Elite Barbarians, Firecracker, Rascal Girls, Royal Hogs, Elixir Golem, Guards, Prince, Balloon, Golem, Wall Breakers, Ram Rider, Sparky, Phoenix, Royal Ghost, Bandit, Lumberjack, Santa Hog Rider, and the Monk.
The Heal Spirit was the first card to replace another card, which was Heal. This is referenced in a line of text below the description which reads "R.I.P. Heal. 2017 - 2020. Alas, we hardly used ye.", referring to its extremely low usage rate in both casual and competitive play.
The Heal Spirit has received the largest percentage buff to a singular upgradeable stat out of all cards in the game, with a 225% damage increase in the 2021 Quarter 1 Update.
In Touchdown, if a Heal Spirit jumps into the enemy end zone as it attacks, it does not count as a touchdown. This is because a jumping spirit no longer counts as a troop; it becomes similar to a projectile.
The Heal Spirit is the subject of 3 Emotes.
The Heal Spirit Buddy Jesus Emote is a reference to the Buddy Christ meme.
Before the Heal Spirit's release, the card description was changed. It used to read, “A little ball of sunshine that jumps on enemies but heals your Troops.”
Hide
Wiki Navigation

Show
Community
Hide
Cards
General	About Cards • Card Overviews(Merge Tactics) • Battle Decks
Troop Cards	Common	Minions • Archers(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Knight(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Spear Goblins(Merge Tactics) • Goblins(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Bomber(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeletons(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarians(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Electro Spirit • Skeleton Dragons(Merge Tactics) • Fire Spirit • Bats(Evolution) • Royal Recruits(Evolution) • Royal Giant(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Spirit(Evolution) • Berserker(Hero) • Skeleton Barrel(Evolution) • Goblin Gang • Elite Barbarians(Evolution) • Minion Horde(Evolution) • Firecracker(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Rascals
Rare	Mini P.E.K.K.A.(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Musketeer(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Giant(Hero • (Merge Tactics) • Valkyrie(Evolution)(Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Mega Minion(Hero) • Battle Ram(Evolution) • Wizard(Evolution) (Hero) (Merge Tactics) • Flying Machine • Hog Rider • Royal Hogs(Evolution) • Three Musketeers • Battle Healer • Ice Golem(Hero) • Dart Goblin(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Furnace(Evolution) • Zappies • Goblin Demolisher(Merge Tactics) • Heal Spirit • Suspicious Bush • Elixir Golem
Epic	Guards • Baby Dragon(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Skeleton Army(Evolution) • Witch(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • P.E.K.K.A.(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Dark Prince(Hero) • Prince(Merge Tactics) • Balloon(Hero) • Giant Skeleton(Merge Tactics) • Rune Giant • Goblin Giant(Evolution) • Hunter(Evolution) • Golem • Electro Dragon(Evolution) • Wall Breakers(Evolution) • Electro Giant(Merge Tactics) • Bowler(Hero) • Executioner(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Cannon Cart • Raging Prince+
Legendary	Mega Knight(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ram Rider • Electro Wizard(Merge Tactics) • Inferno Dragon(Evolution) • Sparky • Miner • Princess(Evolution)(Merge Tactics) • Phoenix • Royal Ghost(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Ice Wizard • Magic Archer(Hero)(Merge Tactics) • Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Lava Hound • Night Witch • Lumberjack(Evolution) • Ronin •Spirit Empress • Goblin Machine(Merge Tactics) • Mother Witch • Fisherman • Super Lava Hound+ • Super Witch+ • Super Mini P.E.K.K.A.+ • Santa Hog Rider+ • Super Ice Golem+ • Super Magic Archer+ • Super Archers+ • Wizard Trio+ • Super Knight+
Champion	Golden Knight(Merge Tactics) • Skeleton King(Merge Tactics) • Boss Bandit(Merge Tactics) • Archer Queen(Merge Tactics) • Mighty Miner • Monk(Merge Tactics) • Little Prince • Goblinstein • Terry+
Spell Cards	Common	Arrows • Zap(Evolution) • Giant Snowball(Evolution) • Royal Delivery • Warmth+
Rare	Fireball • Rocket • Earthquake • Heal
Epic	Goblin Barrel(Evolution) • Vines • Lightning • Freeze • Barbarian Barrel(Hero) • Poison • Goblin Curse • Rage • Void • Clone • Tornado • Mirror
Legendary	The Log • Graveyard • Party Rocket+
Building Cards	Common	Cannon(Evolution) • Mortar(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Tesla(Evolution) (Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Launcher+
Rare	Goblin Cage(Evolution)(Merge Tactics)• Goblin Hut • Tombstone(Hero)(Merge Tactics)• Bomb Tower • Inferno Tower(Merge Tactics) • Barbarian Hut • Elixir Collector(Merge Tactics)
Epic	X-Bow(Merge Tactics) • Goblin Drill(Evolution)
Legendary	Party Hut+ • Rocket Silo+
Tower Troop Cards	Common	Tower Princess • Baby Goblins+
Epic	Cannoneer
Legendary	Dagger Duchess • Royal Chef
Merge Tactics	Traits	Clan • Goblin • Noble • Undead • Forest • Boss • Electric • Warrior • Avenger • Blaster • Brawler • Brutalist • Giant • Juggernaut • Mage • P.E.K.K.A • Ranger • Thrower • Ace • Assassin • Dragon • Fire • Hinder • Marksman • Superstar • Tank • Titan
Rulers	Royale King • Spirit Empress • Goblin Queen • Elixir Loong • Battle Machine • Echo Sage • Dagger Duchess • Grand Warden • Skeleton Queen • Ronin
Show
Battle
Show
Gameplay
Current cards and features appear in blue. Cards/Features that have since been removed from the game, or were only available in a since-discontinued Event, appear in gray. Upcoming cards and features that are not yet in the game appear in yellow. A card or a feature with a + next to it denotes something that is only available in temporary challenges (has a timer on it, and the event may still come back every once in a while). Merge Tactics cards are purple, while Evolutions are pink, and Heroes are orange.
Categories
Languages
Community content is available under CC-BY-SA unless otherwise noted.
More Fandoms
Fantasy Clash Royale

51 Comments

Join the conversation
Sign in to read what others are saying and share your thoughts.
SIGN IN

Don't have account? Register now

ADVERTISEMENT
New to Fandom? Let's make it official.

Create your free account and dive into the worlds you love with fans who love them too.

Continue with Email

By continuing, you agree to Fandom's Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.

Recent Images
Merge Tactics
4 days ago
Arenas
2026/8/28
Mega Knight
2026/8/27
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
ADVERTISEMENT
EXPLORE PROPERTIES
Fandom
Fanatical
GameSpot
Metacritic
TV Guide
Honest Entertainment
FOLLOW US
OVERVIEW
What is Fandom?
Essentials
About
Careers
Press
Contact
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Digital Services Act
Global Sitemap
Local Sitemap
Cookies Settings
COMMUNITY
Community Central
Support
Help
Accessibility Statement
ADVERTISE
Media Kit
Contact
FANDOM APPS
Take your favorite fandoms with you and never miss a beat.
Clash Royale Wiki is a Fandom Games Community.
VIEW MOBILE SITE
Search this wiki
Search all wikis