Hierarchical Macro Strategy Model for
MOBA Game AI
1Bin Wu, 1Qiang Fu, 1Jing Liang, 1Peng Qu, 1Xiaoqian Li, 1Liang Wang,
2Wei Liu, 1Wei Yang, 1Y ongsheng Liu
1,2Tencent AI Lab
1{benbinwu, leonfu, masonliang, pengqu, xiaoqianli, enginewang, willyang, kakarliu}@tencent.com
2wliu@ee.columbia.edu
Abstract
The next challenge of game AI lies in Real Time Strategy
(RTS) games. RTS games provide partially observable gam-
ing environments, where agents interact with one another in
an action space much larger than that of GO. Mastering RTS
games requires both strong macro strategies and delicate mi-
cro level execution. Recently, great progress has been made
in micro level execution, while complete solutions for macro
strategies are still lacking. In this paper, we propose a novel
learning-based Hierarchical Macro Strategy model for mas-
tering MOBA games, a sub-genre of RTS games. Trained
by the Hierarchical Macro Strategy model, agents explicitly
make macro strategy decisions and further guide their micro
level execution. Moreover, each of the agents makes indepen-
dent strategy decisions, while simultaneously communicat-
ing with the allies through leveraging a novel imitated cross-
agent communication mechanism. We perform comprehen-
sive evaluations on a popular 5v5 Multiplayer Online Battle
Arena (MOBA) game. Our 5-AI team achieves a 48% win-
ning rate against human player teams which are ranked top
1% in the player ranking system.
Introduction
Light has been shed on artiﬁcial general intelligence after
AlphaGo defeated world GO champion Lee Seedol (Silver
et al. 2016). Since then, game AI has drawn unprecedented
attention from not only researchers but also the public. Game
AI aims much more than robots playing games. Rather,
games provide ideal environments that simulate the real
world. AI researchers can conduct experiments in games,
and transfer successful AI ability to the real world.
Although AlphaGo is a milestone to the goal of general
AI, the class of problems it represents is still simple com-
pared to the real world. Therefore, recently researchers have
put much attention to real time strategy (RTS) games such
as Defense of the Ancients (Dota) (OpenAI 2018a) and Star-
Craft (Vinyals et al. 2017; Tian et al. 2017), which represents
a class of problems with next level complexity. Dota is a fa-
mous set of science ﬁction 5v5 Multiplayer Online Battle
Arena (MOBA) games. Each player controls one unit and
cooperate with four allies to defend allies’ turrets, attack en-
emies’ turrets, collect resources by killing creeps, etc. The
goal is to destroy enemies’ base.
Copyright c© 2019, Association for the Advancement of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.
There are four major aspects that make RTS games much
more difﬁcult compared to GO: 1) Computational com-
plexity. The computational complexity in terms of action
space or state space of RTS games can be up to 1020,000,
while the complexity of GO is about10250 (OpenAI 2018b).
2) Multi-agent. Playing RTS games usually involves mul-
tiple agents. It is crucial for multiple agents to coordinate
and cooporate. 3) Imperfect information. Different to GO,
many RTS games make use of fog of war (Vinyals et al.
2017) to increase game uncertainty. When the game map
is not fully observable, it is essential to consider gaming
among one another. 4)Sparse and delayed rewards. Learn-
ing upon game rewards in GO is challenging because the
rewards are usually sparse and delayed. RTS game length
could often be larger than 20,000 frames, while each GO
game is usually no more than 361 steps.
To master RTS games, players need to have strong skills
in both macro strategy operation and micro level execu-
tion. In recent study, much attention and attempts have
been put to micro level execution (Vinyals et al. 2017;
Tian et al. 2017; Synnaeve and Bessiere 2011; Wender and
Watson 2012). So far, Dota2 AI developed by OpenAI us-
ing reinforcement learning, i.e., OpenAI Five, has made the
most advanced progress (OpenAI 2018a). OpenAI Five was
trained directly on micro level action space using proxi-
mal policy optimization algorithms along with team rewards
(Schulman et al. 2017). OpenAI Five has shown strong
teamﬁghts skills and coordination comparable to top pro-
fessional Dota2 teams during a demonstration match held
in The International 2018 (DOTA2 2018). OpenAI’s ap-
proach did not explicitly model macro strategy and tried
to learn the entire game using micro level play. However,
OpenAI Five was not able to defeat professional teams due
to weakness in macro strategy management (Vincent 2018;
Simonite 2018).
Related work has also been done in explicit macro strat-
egy operation, mostly focused on navigation. Navigation
aims to provide reasonable destination spots and efﬁcient
routes for agents. Most related work in navigation used in-
ﬂuence maps or potential ﬁelds (DeLoura 2001; Hagelbäck
and Johansson 2008; do Nascimento Silva and Chaimow-
icz 2015). Inﬂuence maps quantify units using handcrafted
equations. Then, multiple inﬂuence maps are fused using
rules to provide a single-value output to navigate agents.
arXiv:1812.07887v1  [cs.MA]  19 Dec 2018
Providing destination is the most important purpose of nav-
igation in terms of macro strategy operation. The ability to
get to the right spots at right time makes essential differ-
ence between high level players and the others. Planning has
also been used in macro strategy operation. Ontanon et al.
proposed Adversarial Hierarchical-Task Network (AHTN)
Planning (Ontanón and Buro 2015) to search hierarchical
tasks in RTS game playing. Although AHTN shows promis-
ing results in a mini-RTS game, it suffers from efﬁciency
issue which makes it difﬁcult to apply to full MOBA games
directly.
Despite of the rich and promising literature, previous
work in macro strategy failed to provide complete solution:
First, reasoning macro strategy implicitly by learning
upon micro level action space may be too difﬁcult. OpenAI
Five’s ability gap between micro level execution and macro
strategy operation was obvious. It might be over-optimistic
to leave models to ﬁgure out high level strategies by sim-
ply looking at micro level actions and rewards. We consider
explicit macro strategy level modeling to be necessary.
Second, previous work on explicit macro strategy heavily
relied on handcrafted equations for inﬂuence maps/potential
ﬁelds computation and fusion. In practice, there are usu-
ally thousands of numerical parameters to manually decide,
which makes it nearly impossible to achieve good perfor-
mance. Planning methods on the other hand cannot meet ef-
ﬁciency requirement of full MOBA games.
Third, one of the most challenging problems in RTS game
macro strategy operation is coordination among multiple
agents. Nevertheless, to the best of our knowledge, previ-
ous work did not consider it in an explicit way. OpenAI Five
considers multi-agent coordination using team rewards on
micro level modeling. However, each agent of OpenAI Five
makes decision without being aware of allies’ macro strat-
egy decisions, making it difﬁcult to develop top coordination
ability in macro strategy level.
Finally, we have found that modeling strategic phase is
crucial for MOBA game AI performance. However, to the
best of our knowledge, previous work did not consider this.
Teaching agents to learn macro strategy operation, how-
ever, is challenging. Mathematically deﬁning macro strat-
egy, e.g., besiege and split push, is difﬁcult in the ﬁrst place.
Also, incorporating macro strategy on top of OpenAI Five’s
reinforcement learning framework (OpenAI 2018a) requires
corresponding execution to gain rewards, while macro strat-
egy execution is a complex ability to learn by itself. There-
fore, we consider supervised learning to be a better scheme
because high quality game replays can be fully leveraged
to learn macro strategy along with corresponding execution
samples. Note that macro strategy and execution learned us-
ing supervised learning can further act as an initial policy for
reinforcement learning.
In this paper, we propose Hierarchical Macro Strat-
egy (HMS) model - a general supervised learning frame-
work for MOBA games such as Dota. HMS directly tack-
les with computational complexity and multi-agent chal-
lenges of MOBA games. More speciﬁcally, HMS is a hi-
erarchical model which conducts macro strategy operation
by predicting attention on the game map under guidance
of game phase modeling. Thereby, HMS reduces computa-
tional complexity by incorporating game knowledge. More-
over, each HMS agent conducts learning with a novel mech-
anism of communication with teammates agents to cope
with multi-agent challenge. Finally, we have conducted ex-
tensive experiments in a popular MOBA game to evaluate
our AI ability. We matched with hundreds of human player
teams that ranked above 99% of players in the ranked system
and achieved 48% winning rate.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: First, we
brieﬂy introduce Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA)
games and compare the computational complexity with
GO. Second, we illustrate our proposed Hierarchical Macro
Strategy model. Then, we present experimental results in the
fourth section. Finally, we conclude and discuss future work.
Multiplayer Online Battle Arena (MOBA)
Games
Game Description
MOBA is currently the most popular sub-genre of the RTS
games. MOBA games are responsible for more than 30%
of the online gameplay all over the world, with titles such
as Dota, League of Legends, and Honour of Kings (Mur-
phy 2015). According to a worldwide digital games market
report in February 2018, MOBA games ranked ﬁrst in gross-
ing in both PC and mobile games (SuperData 2018).
In MOBA, the standard game mode requires two 5-player
teams play against each other. Each player controls one unit,
i.e., hero. There are numerous of heroes in MOBA, e.g.,
more than 80 in Honour of Kings. Each hero is uniquely
designed with special characteristics and skills. Players con-
trol movement and skill releasing of heroes via the game
interface.
As shown in Figure. 1a, Honour of Kings players use left
bottom steer button to control movements, while right bot-
tom set of buttons to control skills. Surroundings are ob-
servable via the main screen. Players can also learn full map
situation via the left top corner mini-map, where observable
turrets, creeps, and heroes are displayed as thumbnails. Units
are only observable either if they are allies’ units or if they
are within a certain distance to allies’ units.
There are three lanes of turrets for each team to defend,
three turrets in each lane. There are also four jungle areas on
the map, where creep resources can be collected to increase
gold and experience. Each hero starts with minimum gold
and level 1. Each team tries to leverage resources to obtain
as much gold and experience as possible to purchase items
and upgrade levels. The ﬁnal goal is to destroy enemy’s base.
A conceptual map of MOBA is shown in Figure. 1b.
To master MOBA games, players need to have both excel-
lent macro strategy operation and proﬁcient micro level exe-
cution. Common macro strategies consist of opening, laning,
ganking, ambushing, etc. Proﬁcient micro level execution re-
quires high accuracy of control and deep understanding of
damage and effects of skills. Both macro strategy operation
and micro level execution require mastery of timing to excel,
which makes it extremely challenging and interesting. More
(a)
 (b)
Figure 1: (a) Game UI of Honour of Kings. Players use left bottom steer button to control movements, while right bottom set of
buttons to control skills. Players can observe surroundings via the screen and view the mini full map using the left top corner.
(b) An example map of MOBA. The two teams are colored in blue and red, each possesses nine turrets (circled in rounds) and
one base (circled in squares). The four jungle areas are numbered from 1 to 4.
Table 1: Computational complexity comparison between
GO and MOBA.
GO MOBA
Action
Space
250150 ≈ 10360 (250
pos available, 150
decisions per game
in average)
101500 (10 options,
1500 actions per
game)
State
Space
3360 ≈ 10170 (361
pos, 3 states each)
1020000 (10 heroes,
2000+pos *
10+states)
discussion of MOBA can be found in (Silva and Chaimow-
icz 2017).
Next, we will quantify the computational complexity of
MOBA using Honour of Kings as an example.
Computational Complexity
The normal game length of Honour of Kings is about
20 minutes, i.e., approximately 20,000 frames in terms of
gamecore. At each frame, players make decision with tens
of options, including movement button with 24 directions,
and a few skill buttons with corresponding releasing posi-
tion/directions. Even with signiﬁcant discretization and sim-
pliﬁcation, as well as reaction time increased to 200ms, the
action space is at magnitude of 101,500.
As for state space, the resolution of Honour of Kings map
is 130,000 by 130,000 pixels, and the diameter of each unit
is 1,000. At each frame, each unit may have different status
such as hit points, levels, gold. Again, the state space is at
magnitude of 1020,000 with signiﬁcant simpliﬁcation.
Comparison of action space and state space between
MOBA and GO is listed in Table. 1.
MOBA AI Macro Strategy Architecture
Our motivation of designing MOBA AI macro strategy
model was inspired from how human players make strategic
decisions. During MOBA games, experienced human play-
ers are fully aware of game phases, e.g., opening phase, lan-
ing phase, mid game phase, and late game phase (Silva and
Chaimowicz 2017). During each phase, players pay atten-
tion to the game map and make corresponding decision on
where to dispatch the heroes. For example, during the laning
phase players tend to focus more on their own lanes rather
than backing up allies, while during mid to late phases, play-
ers pay more attention to teamﬁght spots and pushing ene-
mies’ base.
To sum up, we formulate the macro strategy operation
process as "phase recognition -> attention prediction -> ex-
ecution". To model this process, we propose a two-layer
macro strategy architecture, i.e., phase and attention:
• Phase layer aims to recognize current game phase so that
attention layer can have better sense about where to pay
attention to.
• Attention layer aims to predict the best region on game
maps to dispatch heroes.
Phase and Attention layers act as high level guidance for
micro level execution. We will describe details of model-
ing in the next section. The network structure of micro level
model is almost identical to the one used in OpenAI Five 1
(OpenAI 2018a), but in a supervised learning manner. We
did minor modiﬁcation to adapt it to Honour of Kings, such
as deleting Teleport.
Hierarchical Macro Strategy Model
We propose a Hierarchical Macro Strategy (HMS) model to
consider both phase and attention layers in a uniﬁed neural
network. We will ﬁrst present the uniﬁed network architec-
ture. Then, we illustrate how we construct each of the phase
and attention layers.
1https://d4mucfpksywv.cloudfront.
net/research-covers/openai-five/
network-architecture.pdf
Model Overview
We propose a Hierarchical Macro Strategy model (HMS) to
model both attention and phase layers as a multi-task model.
It takes game features as input. The output consists of two
tasks, i.e., attention layer as the main task and phase layer as
an auxiliary task. The output of attention layer directly con-
veys macro strategy embedding to micro level models, while
resource layer acts as an axillary task which help reﬁne the
shared layers between attention and phase tasks.
The illustrating network structure of HMS is listed in Fig-
ure. 2. HMS takes both image and vector features as in-
put, carrying visual features and global features respectively.
In image part, we use convolutional layers. In vector part,
we use fully connected layers. The image and vector parts
merge in two separate tasks, i.e., attention and phase. Ul-
timately, attention and phase tasks take input from shared
layers through their own layers and output to compute loss.
Attention Layer
Similar to how players make decisions according to the
game map, attention layer predicts the best region for agents
to move to. However, it is tricky to tell from data that where
is a player’s destination. We observe that regions where at-
tack takes place can be indicator of players’ destination, be-
cause otherwise players would not have spent time on such
spots. According to this observation, we deﬁne ground-truth
regions as the regions where players conduct their next at-
tack. An illustrating example is shown in Figure. 3.
Let s to be one session in a game which contains several
frames, and s − 1 indicates the session right before s. In
Figure. 3, s − 1 is the ﬁrst session in the game. Let ts to
be the starting frame of s. Note that a session ends along
with attack behavior, therefore there exists a region ys in ts
where the hero conducts attack. As shown in Figure. 3, label
for s−1 is ys, while label fors is ys+1. Intuitively, by setting
up labels in this way, we expect agents to learn to move to
ys at the beginning of game. Similarly, agents are supposed
to move to appropriate regions given game situation.
Phase layer
Phase layer aims to recognize the current phase. Extracting
game phases ground-truth is difﬁcult because phase deﬁni-
tion used by human players is abstract. Although roughly
correlated to time, phases such as opening, laning, and late
game depend on complicated judgment based on current
game situation, which makes it difﬁcult to extract ground-
truth of game phases from replays. Fortunately, we observe
clear correlation between game phases with major resources.
For example, during the opening phase players usually aim
at taking outer turrets and baron, while for late game, players
operate to destroy enemies’ base.
Therefore, we propose to model phases with respect to
major resources. More speciﬁcally, major resources indicate
turrets, baron, dragon, and base. We marked the major re-
sources on the map in Figure. 4a. Label deﬁnition of phase
layer is similar to attention layer. The only difference is that
ys in phase layer indicates attack behavior on turrets, baron,
dragon, and base instead of in regions. Intuitively, phase
layer modeling splits the entire game into several phases via
modeling which macro resource to take in current phase.
We do not consider other resources such as lane creeps,
heroes, and neutral creeps as major objectives because usu-
ally these resources are for bigger goal, such as destroying
turrets or base with higher chance. Figure. 4b shows a series
of attack behavior during the bottom outer turret strategy.
The player killed two neutral creeps in the nearby jungle
and several lane creeps in the bottom lane before attacking
the bottom outer turret.
We expect the model to learn when and what major re-
sources to take given game situation, and in the meanwhile
learn attention distribution that serve each of the major re-
sources.
Imitated Cross-agents Communication
Cross-agents communication is essential for a team of
agents to cooperate. There is rich literature of cross-agent
communication on multi-agent reinforcement learning re-
search (Sukhbaatar, Fergus, and others 2016; Foerster et al.
2016). However, it is challenging to learn communication
using training data in supervised learning because the actual
communication is unknown.
To enable agents to communicate in supervised learning
setting, we have designed a novel cross-agents communi-
cation mechanism. During training phase, we put attention
labels of allies as features for training. During testing phase,
we put attention prediction of allies as features and make
decision correspondingly. In this way, our agents can "com-
municate" with one another and learn to cooperate upon al-
lies’ decisions. We name this mechanism as Imitated Cross-
agents Communication due to its supervised nature.
Experiments
In this section, we evaluate our model performance. We ﬁrst
describe the experimental setup, including data preparation
and model setup. Then, we present qualitative results such
as attention distribution under different phase. Finally, we
list the statistics of matches with human player teams and
evaluate improvement brought by our proposed model.
Experimental Setup
Data Preparation To train a model, we collect around 300
thousand game replays made of King Professional League
competition and training records. Finally, 250 million in-
stances were used for training. We consider both visual and
attributes features. On visual side, we extract 85 features
such as position and hit points of all units and then blur the
visual features into 12*12 resolution. On attributes side, we
extract 181 features such as roles of heroes, time period of
game, hero ID, heroes’ gold and level status and Kill-Death-
Assistance statistics.
Model Setup We use a mixture of convolutional and
fully-connected layers to take inputs from visual and at-
tributes features respectively. On convolutional side, we set
ﬁve shared convolutional layers, each with 512 channels,
padding = 1, and one RELU. Each of the tasks has two con-
volutional layers with exactly the same conﬁguration with
Figure 2: Network Architecture of Hierarchical Macro Strategy Model
Figure 3: Illustrating example for label extraction in atten-
tion layer.
shared layers. On fully-connected layers side, we set two
shared fully-connected layers with 512 nodes. Each of the
tasks has two fully-connected layers with exactly the same
conﬁguration with shared layers. Then, we use one concate-
nation layer and two fully-connected layers to fuse results
of convolutional layers and fully-connected layers. We use
ADAM as the optimizer with base learning rate at 10e-6.
Batch size was set at 128. The loss weights of both phase
and attention tasks are set at 1. We used CAFFE (Jia et al.
2014) with eight GPU cards. The duration to train an HMS
model was about 12 hours.
Finally, the output for attention layer corresponds to 144
regions of the map, resolution of which is exactly the same
as the visual inputs. The output of the phase task corresponds
to 14 major resources circled in Figure. 4a.
Experimental Results
Opening Attention Opening is one of the most important
strategies in MOBA. We show one opening attention of dif-
ferent heroes learned by our model in Figure. 5. In Figure.
5, each subﬁgure consists of two square images. The left-
hand-side square image indicates the attention distribution
of the right-hand-side MOBA mini-map. The hottest region
is highlighted with red circle. We list attention prediction of
four heroes, i.e., Diaochan, Hanxin, Arthur, and Houyi. The
four heroes belong to master, assasin, warrior, and archer re-
spectively. According to the attention prediction, Diaochan
is dispatched to middle lane, Hanxin will move to left jun-
gle area, and Authur and Houyi will guard the bottom jungle
area. The ﬁfth hero Miyamoto Musashi, which was not plot-
ted, will guard the top outer turret. This opening is consid-
ered safe and efﬁcient, and widely used in Honour of Kings
games.
Attention Distribution Affected by Phase Layer We vi-
sualize attention distribution of different phases in Figure.
6a and 6b. We can see that attention distributes around the
major resource of each phase. For example, for upper outer
turret phase in Figure. 6a, the attention distributes around
upper outer region, as well as nearby jungle area. Also, as
shown in Figure. 6b, attention distributes mainly in the mid-
dle lane, especially area in front of the base. These examples
show that our phase layer modeling affects attention distri-
bution in practice. To further examine how phase layer cor-
relates with game phases, we conduct t-Distributed Stochas-
tic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) on phase layer output. As
shown in Figure. 7, samples are coloured with respect to dif-
ferent time stages. We can observe that samples are clearly
separable with respect to time stages. For example, blue, or-
ange and green (0-10 minuets) samples place close to one
another, while red and purple samples (more than 10 min-
uets) form another group.
Macro Strategy Embedding We evaluate how important
is the macro strategy modeling. We removed the macro strat-
egy embedding and trained the model using micro level ac-
tions from the replays. The micro level model design is sim-
ilar to OpenAI Five (OpenAI 2018a). Detail description of
the micro level modeling is out of the scope of this paper.
The result is listed in Table. 2, column AI Without Macro
Strategy. As the result shows, HMS outperformed AI With-
out Macro Strategy with 75% winning rates. HMS per-
formed much better than AI Without Macro Strategy in
terms of number of kills, turrets destruction, and gold. The
most obvious performance change is that AI Without Macro
Strategy mainly focused on nearby targets. Agents did not
(a)
 (b)
Figure 4: (a) Major resources (circled, i.e., turrets, base, dragon, and baron) modeled in phase layer. (b) Illustrating example for
label extraction in phase layer.
Figure 5: One of the opening strategies learned for different hero roles. The hottest regions are highlighted with red circle.
(a)
 (b)
Figure 6: Attention distribution of different strategies. The
two attention ﬁgures describe attention distribution of the
two major resources, i.e., upper outer turret and base respec-
tively.
care much about backing up teammates and pushing lane
creeps in relatively large distance. They spent most of the
time on killing neutral creeps and nearby lane creeps. The
performance change can be observed from the compari-
son of engagement rate and number of turrets in Table. 2.
This phenomenon may reﬂect how important macro strategy
modeling is to highlight important spots.
Match against Human Players To evaluate our AI per-
formance more accurately, we conduct matches between our
AI and human players. We invited 250 human player teams
whose average ranking is King in Honour of Kings rank sys-
tem (above 1% of human players). Following the standard
procedure of ranked match in Honour of Kings, we obey
ban-pick rules to pick and ban heroes before each match.
The ban-pick module was implemented using simple rules.
Note that gamecores of Honour of Kings limit commands
frequency to a level similar with human.
The overall statistics are listed in Table. 2, column Human
Teams. Our AI achieved 48% winning rate in the 250 games.
The statistics show that our AI team did not have advantage
on teamﬁght over human teams. The number of kills made
by AI is about 15% less than human teams. Other items such
as turrets destruction, engagement rate, and gold per minute
were similar between AI and human. We have further ob-
served that our AI destroyed 2.5 more turrets than human on
average in the ﬁrst 10 minutes. After 10 minutes, turrets dif-
ference shrank due to weaker teamﬁght ability compared to
human teams. Arguably, our AI’s macro strategy operation
ability is close to or above our human opponents.
Imitated Cross-agents Communication To evaluate how
important the cross-agents communication mechanism is to
the AI ability, we conduct matches between HMS and HMS
trained without cross-agents communication. The result is
listed in Table. 2, column AI Without Communication. HMS
achieved a 62.5% winning rate over the version without
communication. We have observed obvious cross-agents co-
operation learned when cross-agents communication was in-
troduced. For example, rate of reasonable opening increased
from 22% to 83% according to experts’ evaluation.
Figure 7: t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding on phase layer output. Embedded data samples are coloured with
respect to different time stages.
Table 2: Match statistics. 250 games were played against Human Teams, while 40 games were played against Without Macro
Strategy, Without Communication, and Without Phase Layer, respectively.
Opponents AI Without Macro
Strategy Human Teams AI Without
Communication AI Without Phase Layer
Winning rate 75% - 25% 48.3% - 51.7% 62.5% - 37.5% 65% - 35%
Kill 26.0 - 21.1 22.6 - 26.3 19.9 - 19.4 25.6 - 22.8
Game Length 16.1 min 16.1 min 18.2 min 18.2 min
Gold/Min 2399 - 2287 2603 - 2616 2633 - 2554 2500 - 2333
Engagement Rate 49% - 42% 48% - 48% 49% - 47% 50% - 49%
Turrets 6.1 - 3.2 6.1 - 6.2 6.21 - 5.26 6.73 - 5.42
Dragons 1.22 - 0.2 0.55 - 0.55 0.65 - 0.49 1 - 0.41
Barons 0.62 - 0.31 0.64 - 0.61 0.45 - 0.41 0.71 - 0.2
Dark Barons 0.41 - 0.22 0.36 - 0.38 0.35 - 0.32 0.49 - 0.04
Phase layer We evaluate how phase layer affects the per-
formance of HMS. We removed the phase layer and com-
pared it with the full version of HMS. The result is listed in
Table. 2, column AI Without phase layer. The result shows
that phase layer modeling improved HMS signiﬁcantly with
65% winning rate. We have also observed obvious AI abil-
ity downgrade when phase layer was removed. For example,
agents were no longer accurate about timing when baron ﬁrst
appears, while the full version HMS agents got ready at 2:00
to gain baron as soon as possible.
Conclusion and Future Work
In this paper, we proposed a novel Hierarchical Macro
Strategy model which models macro strategy operation for
MOBA games. HMS explicitly models agents’ attention
on game maps and considers game phase modeling. We
also proposed a novel imitated cross-agent communication
mechanism which enables agents to cooperate.
We used Honour of Kings as an example of MOBA games
to implement and evaluate HMS. We conducted matches
between our AI and top 1% human player teams. Our AI
achieves a 48% winning rate. To the best of our knowledge,
our proposed HMS model is the ﬁrst learning based model
that explicitly models macro strategy for MOBA games.
HMS used supervised learning to learn macro strategy op-
eration and corresponding micro level execution from high
quality replays. A trained HMS model can be further used
as an initial policy for reinforcement learning framework.
Our proposed HMS model exhibits a strong potential in
MOBA games. It may be generalized to more RTS games
with appropriate adaptations. For example, the attention
layer modeling may be applicable to StarCraft, where the
deﬁnition of attention can be extended to more meaningful
behaviors such as building operation. Also, Imitated Cross-
agents Communication can be used to learn to cooperate.
Phase layer modeling is more game-speciﬁc. The resource
collection procedure in StarCraft is different from that of
MOBA, where gold is mined near the base. Therefore, phase
layer modeling may require game-speciﬁc design for differ-
ent games. However, the underlying idea to capture game
phases can be generalized to Starcraft as well.
HMS may also inspire macro strategy modeling in do-
mains where multiple agents cooperate on a map and histor-
ical data is available. For example, in robot soccer, attention
layer modeling and Imitated Cross-agents Communication
may help robots position and cooperate given parsed soccer
recordings.
In the future, we will incorporate planning based on HMS.
Planning by MCTS roll-outs in Go has been proven essen-
tial to outperform top human players (Silver et al. 2016). We
expect planning can be essential for RTS games as well, be-
cause it may not only be useful for imperfect information
gaming but also be crucial to bringing in expected rewards
which supervised learning fails to consider.
References
[DeLoura 2001] DeLoura, M. A. 2001. Game programming
gems 2. Cengage learning.
[do Nascimento Silva and Chaimowicz 2015] do Nasci-
mento Silva, V ., and Chaimowicz, L. 2015. On the
development of intelligent agents for moba games. In
Computer Games and Digital Entertainment (SBGames),
2015 14th Brazilian Symposium on, 142–151. IEEE.
[DOTA2 2018] DOTA2. 2018. The international 2018.
https://www.dota2.com/international/announcement/.
[Foerster et al. 2016] Foerster, J. N.; Assael, Y . M.; de Fre-
itas, N.; and Whiteson, S. 2016. Learning to communicate
to solve riddles with deep distributed recurrent q-networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1602.02672.
[Hagelbäck and Johansson 2008] Hagelbäck, J., and Johans-
son, S. J. 2008. The rise of potential ﬁelds in real time
strategy bots. In Fourth Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Interac-
tive Digital Entertainment Conference. Stanford University.
[Jia et al. 2014] Jia, Y .; Shelhamer, E.; Donahue, J.; Karayev,
S.; Long, J.; Girshick, R.; Guadarrama, S.; and Darrell, T.
2014. Caffe: Convolutional architecture for fast feature em-
bedding. arXiv preprint arXiv:1408.5093.
[Murphy 2015] Murphy, M. 2015. Most played games:
November 2015 – fallout 4 and black ops iii arise while
starcraft ii shines. http://caas.raptr.com/most-played-games-
november-2015-fallout-4-andblack-ops-iii-arise-while-
starcraft-ii-shines/.
[Ontanón and Buro 2015] Ontanón, S., and Buro, M. 2015.
Adversarial hierarchical-task network planning for complex
real-time games. In Twenty-Fourth International Joint Con-
ference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence.
[OpenAI 2018a] OpenAI. 2018a. Openai blog: Dota 2.
https://blog.openai.com/dota-2/ (17 Apr 2018).
[OpenAI 2018b] OpenAI. 2018b. Openai ﬁve.
https://blog.openai.com/openai-ﬁve/ (25 Jun 2018).
[Schulman et al. 2017] Schulman, J.; Wolski, F.; Dhariwal,
P.; Radford, A.; and Klimov, O. 2017. Proximal policy op-
timization algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347.
[Silva and Chaimowicz 2017] Silva, V . D. N., and Chaimow-
icz, L. 2017. Moba: a new arena for game ai. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1705.10443.
[Silver et al. 2016] Silver, D.; Huang, A.; Maddison, C. J.;
Guez, A.; Sifre, L.; Van Den Driessche, G.; Schrittwieser,
J.; Antonoglou, I.; Panneershelvam, V .; Lanctot, M.; et al.
2016. Mastering the game of go with deep neural networks
and tree search. nature 529(7587):484–489.
[Simonite 2018] Simonite, T. 2018. Pro gamers
fend off elon musk-backed ai bots—for now.
https://www.wired.com/story/pro-gamers-fend-off-elon-
musks-ai-bots/ (Aug 23, 2018).
[Sukhbaatar, Fergus, and others 2016] Sukhbaatar, S.; Fer-
gus, R.; et al. 2016. Learning multiagent communication
with backpropagation. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2244–2252.
[SuperData 2018] SuperData. 2018. World-
wide digital games market: February 2018.
https://www.superdataresearch.com/us-digital-games-
market/.
[Synnaeve and Bessiere 2011] Synnaeve, G., and Bessiere,
P. 2011. A bayesian model for rts units control applied to
starcraft. In Computational Intelligence and Games (CIG),
2011 IEEE Conference on, 190–196. IEEE.
[Tian et al. 2017] Tian, Y .; Gong, Q.; Shang, W.; Wu, Y .; and
Zitnick, C. L. 2017. Elf: An extensive, lightweight and
ﬂexible research platform for real-time strategy games. In
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 2656–
2666.
[Vincent 2018] Vincent, J. 2018. Humans grab vic-
tory in ﬁrst of three dota 2 matches against openai.
https://www.theverge.com/2018/8/23/17772376/openai-
dota-2-pain-game-human-victory-ai (Aug 23, 2018).
[Vinyals et al. 2017] Vinyals, O.; Ewalds, T.; Bartunov, S.;
Georgiev, P.; Vezhnevets, A. S.; Yeo, M.; Makhzani, A.; Küt-
tler, H.; Agapiou, J.; Schrittwieser, J.; et al. 2017. Star-
craft ii: a new challenge for reinforcement learning. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1708.04782.
[Wender and Watson 2012] Wender, S., and Watson, I. 2012.
Applying reinforcement learning to small scale combat in
the real-time strategy game starcraft: Broodwar. In Compu-
tational Intelligence and Games (CIG), 2012 IEEE Confer-
ence on, 402–408. IEEE.